AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareThe claim was that larger organizations would be able to harness economies of scale and offer better care. By Austin FraktMany things affect your health. Genetics. Lifestyle. Modern medicine. The environment in which you live and work. But although we rarely consider it, the degree of competition among health care organizations does so as well. Markets for both hospitals and physicians have become more concentrated in recent years. Although higher prices are the consequences most often discussed, such consolidation can also result in worse health care. Studies show that rates of mortality and of major health setbacks grow when competition falls.This runs counter to claims some in the health care industry have made in favor of mergers. By harnessing economies of scale and scope, they’ve argued, larger organizations can offer better care at lower costs. In one recent example, two Texas health systems — Baylor Scott & White, and Memorial Hermann Health System — sought to merge, forming a 68-hospital system. The systems have since abandoned the plan, but not before Jim Hinton, Baylor Scott & White’s chief executive, told The Wall Street Journal that “the end, the more important end, is to improve care.”  Yet Martin Gaynor, a Carnegie Mellon University economist who is an author of several reviews exploring the consequences of hospital consolidation, said that “evidence from three decades of hospital mergers does not support the claim that consolidation improves quality.” This is especially true when government constrains prices, as is the case for Medicare in the United States and Britain’s National Health Service.“When prices are set by the government, hospitals don’t compete on price; they compete on quality,” Mr. Gaynor said. But this doesn’t happen in markets that are highly consolidated.In 2006, the National Health Service introduced a policy that increased competition among hospitals. When recommending hospital care, it required general practitioners to provide patients with five options, as well as quality data for each. Because hospital payments are fixed by the government — whichever hospital a patient chooses gets the payment for care provided to that patient — hospitals ended up competing on quality.Mr. Gaynor was an author of a study showing that consequences of this policy included shorter hospital stays and lower mortality. According to the study, for every decrease of 10 percentage points in hospital market concentration, 30-day mortality for heart attacks fell nearly 3 percent.Another study found that hospital competition in the N.H.S. decreased heart attack mortality, and several studies of Medicare also found that hospital competition results in lower rates of mortality from heart attacks and pneumonia.Another piece of evidence in the competition-quality connection comes from other types of health care providers, including doctors. Recently, investigators from the Federal Trade Commission examined what happens when cardiologists team up into larger groups. The study, published in Health Services Research, focused on the health care outcomes of about two million Medicare beneficiaries who had been treated for hypertension, for a cardiac ailment or for a heart attack from 2005 to 2012.The study found that when cardiology markets are more concentrated, these kinds of patients are more likely to have heart attacks, visit the emergency department, be readmitted to the hospital or die. These effects of market concentration are large.To illustrate, consider a cardiology market with five practices in which one becomes more dominant — going from just below a 40 percent market share to a 60 percent market share (with the rest of the market split equally across the other four practices). The study found that the chance of having a heart attack would go up 5 to 7 percent as the largest cardiology practice became more dominant. The chance of visiting the emergency department, being readmitted to the hospital or dying would go up similarly.The study also found that greater market concentration led to higher spending. And a different study of family doctors in England found that quality and patient satisfaction increased with competition.For many goods and services, Americans are comfortable with the idea that competition leads to lower prices and better quality. But we often think of health care as different — that it somehow shouldn’t be “market based.” AdvertisementSupported byBy Katharine Q. SeelyeBill Jenkins, a government epidemiologist who tried to expose the unethical Tuskegee syphilis study in the 1960s and devoted the rest of his career to fighting racism in health care, died on Feb. 17 in Charleston, S.C. He was 73.His wife, Dr. Diane Rowley, said the cause was complications of sarcoidosis, an inflammatory disease.Dr. Jenkins was working as a statistician at the United States Public Health Service in Washington in the 1960s when he first learned of the infamous Tuskegee study. In that study, the federal government deceived hundreds of black men in Macon County, Ala., where Tuskegee is the county seat, into thinking that their so-called “bad blood” — they weren’t told that they had syphilis — was being treated when it wasn’t.The researchers had wanted to see what unchecked syphilis would do to the human body and used these men as guinea pigs, without their informed consent.The disease, which is usually transmitted by sexual contact and can cause brain damage, paralysis, blindness and death, ran its course in several of the men. Some infected their wives, who passed it on to some of their children. The study lasted from 1932 to 1972.A colleague told Dr. Jenkins about the study while it was still going on, but not in much detail. Dr. Jenkins did some research and found dozens of articles about it in medical journals, so he understood that it was not being done in secret. Even local chapters of the American Medical Association supported it.Still, he was troubled by the ethics of the situation and spoke to his supervisor.“Don’t worry about it,” his supervisor told him. Dr. Jenkins later learned that the supervisor was among those monitoring the study.Dr. Jenkins, who was black, and some colleagues wrote an article about it and sent it to other African-American doctors and to a few reporters. But Dr. Rowley, his wife, said he did not include any background or explanatory information, and the news media did not pick it up.Eventually, another health service epidemiologist, Peter Buxtun, gave the information to The Associated Press. The A.P. article appeared on the front page of The New York Times and elsewhere and shocked the nation. The study was soon halted.For Dr. Jenkins, the Tuskegee study confirmed what he had long believed — that medical research was biased against people of color and that this study was just the tip of the iceberg.It would change his life. He would go on to devote himself to trying to reduce disease and illness among African Americans and other people of color, in part by recruiting more such people into the public health professions.He was one of the first researchers at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to recognize how dramatically AIDS was affecting black men. He helped organize the first conference on AIDS in underserved neighborhoods and became the C.D.C.’s director of AIDS prevention for minorities.And for 10 years he oversaw the government’s Participants Health Benefits Program, which provides free lifetime medical care to the men of the Tuskegee study and their eligible family members.“What they deserve is the best medical care we can provide,” Dr. Jenkins told The Times in 1997. “I try to give them the care that I would want to give to my mother.”Susan Reverby, author of “Examining Tuskegee: The Infamous Syphilis Study and Its Legacy” (2009), said in a telephone interview that Dr. Jenkins had successfully fought to expand the benefits for survivors and their families, insuring that health care, like nursing homes, would be covered in addition to medical care.“They were the only people in America who would have universal health care,” Ms. Reverby said.Dr. Jenkins was also among those who helped extract an official apology from the federal government for the Tuskegee study. In 1997, President Bill Clinton invited the surviving eight subjects of the Tuskegee study and their families to the White House; five of the survivors went, and on May 16 Mr. Clinton delivered a formal apology on behalf of the country.“No power on Earth can give you back the lives lost, the pain suffered, the years of internal torment and anguish,” Mr. Clinton said. “What the United States government did was shameful, and I am sorry.”The apology is commemorated every year at the National Center for Bioethics in Research and Health Care at Tuskegee University; the government paid for the center as part of the apology, and Dr. Jenkins helped establish it.“The government was at the epicenter of the Tuskegee study, and Bill Jenkins had the courage to bring forth his ethical concerns while he was still a government employee,” Dr. Rueben Warren, director of the bioethics center, said in a telephone interview.“He spoke truth to power,” he said.William Carter Jenkins was born on July 26, 1945, in Mt. Pleasant, S.C. His father, Albert Daniel Jenkins, was a funeral home director and restaurant owner; his mother, Martha (Wilson) Jenkins, was a schoolteacher.He graduated from historically black Morehouse College with a bachelor’s degree in mathematics in 1967. He went to work for the National Center for Health Statistics, a division of the public health service, and became one of the first black commissioned officers in the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps.After the Tuskegee study was exposed, he was determined to make more of a difference in the world and decided he needed more training. He earned his master’s of science degree in biostatistics in 1974 at Georgetown University. He was awarded a second master’s, in public health, in 1977 from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he went on to earn a doctorate in epidemiology in 1983.He married Dr. Rowley that year. They had met at the C.D.C., where they were both epidemiologists. In addition to his wife, Dr. Jenkins is survived by their daughter, Danielle Rowley-Jenkins. His brother, Dr. Albert Daniel Jenkins Jr., died in 2006.Dr. Rowley said her husband had always been an activist. In high school, he had registered people to vote. In college, he was a foot soldier in the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee. He was jailed, along with the future Georgia congressman John Lewis and others, for protesting the whites-only restaurant owned by Lester Maddox, a segregationist and future governor of Georgia.And while he was at the public health service, he helped start an underground newspaper, The Drum, directed at employees who felt they were experiencing racism in their work or witnessing it.Later in his career, Dr. Jenkins founded the Society for the Analysis of African American Public Health Issues, which is dedicated to eliminating health inequities among the races.But it was the Tuskegee study that would define his life’s work.AdvertisementSupported byBy Yonette JosephLONDON — Beginning this summer, women and girls at hospitals across England will be offered free tampons and other sanitary products, health officials announced on Sunday, in what advocates called “a big step forward” in the effort to end so-called period poverty.The decision by National Health Service England comes less than a year after the British Medical Association noted that hospitals across Britain had “often poor and inconsistent” practices of offering sanitary products and called on the government to provide them for patients’ “health, dignity and well-being.”Simon Stevens, the chief executive for N.H.S. England, said in a statement, “It’s fundamental that we give patients the best experience possible during what can be a stressful time of their life.” Providing sanitary products, he added, “can prevent unnecessary embarrassment and leave people to focus on their recovery.”The free sanitary products will be offered in all medical settings in England overseen by the National Health Service.In a statement, Tina Leslie, founder of Freedom4Girls, a charity that fights period poverty, said the move was “fantastic.”“It is also breaking down barriers and reducing the stigma around periods,” she said. “When women go into hospital, it can be a worry to know what to do if you start your period. But now that worry is taken away as they know they will be catered for.”A 2018 investigation by the British Medical Association found that while more than half of the responding hospitals said that they made sanitary products available to patients, “a significant number of trusts and health boards (42 percent) either do not supply sanitary products at all or indicated that they would only supply them in case of an emergency.”The Freedom of Information study noted that many trusts and health boards offered free razors and shaving foam to patients.On Sunday, the chief of the medical association said the agency was “delighted” by N.H.S. England’s decision, calling it a “big step forward.”Ruth May, England’s chief nurse, said in a statement: “Periods are part of life, and too often we take it for granted that everyone has easy access to sanitary products.”She added that the plan “will mean that the embarrassment, discomfort and anxiety of finding yourself in hospital without adequate protection on your period will be a thing of the past.”A spokeswoman for British Medical Association said on Sunday that the agency had surveyed hospitals across Britain, and expected that those in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland would eventually begin a similar policy.Another survey found that one in four women and girls has had to miss work or school during their period because they are unable to buy sanitary products, N.H.S. England said.The medical association spokeswoman said by phone that period poverty places enormous stress on girls and women.Last year, Scotland became the first country to provide free sanitary products to students at schools, colleges and universities. The $6.4 million program would supply 395,000 students with essential sanitary products every month, beginning in September.“In a country as rich as Scotland, it’s unacceptable that anyone should struggle to buy basic sanitary products,” Aileen Campbell, the communities secretary, said in a statement announcing the program last year.AdvertisementSupported byBy Kim Barker and Nicholas KulishA difficult situation for migrant children in government custody could grow more challenging if the largest provider in the overburdened shelter system were to lose its grants.The provider, Southwest Key Programs, faces mounting pressure after a video of staff members abusing children surfaced last month and the Justice Department opened an investigation into its finances. State and federal officials have cracked down on suspected malfeasance at shelters in the past year, closing multiple facilities, including two run by Southwest Key, and moving children elsewhere.But taking any broader action on Southwest Key, a nonprofit that houses almost a third of detained migrant youth, would be a balancing act for officials as they tried to avoid tipping an overstressed system into chaos. Without adequate shelter space, minors remain stuck at border stations ill-equipped to care for them. After the recent deaths of two children in Border Patrol custody, the stakes have never been clearer.About 12,400 migrant children are now housed across roughly 100 permanent sites and two temporary ones. That’s down from the record level of almost 15,000 last month, largely because the Trump administration relaxed its rule requiring fingerprints for every member of a household sponsoring a child.By any measure, Southwest Key is the industry juggernaut. The Austin-based charity operates 24 permanent facilities in Texas, Arizona and California. One of those is the nation’s largest permanent shelter, a converted Walmart Supercenter in Brownsville, Tex., that can house more than 1,400 minors.Southwest Key, which has pulled in $1.7 billion over the past decade, is being investigated by the Justice Department after a New York Times article documented possible financial improprieties and poor management. The charity stockpiled tens of millions in taxpayer dollars with little government oversight, possibly engaged in self-dealing with top executives and paid them significantly higher than the federal salary cap for migrant shelter grants.But if the federal government revoked its grants, there would not be enough room in the crowded system to absorb the children under its care. Officials would need to find another provider to take over Southwest Key’s shelters, or find new facilities altogether.Maria Cancian, a former deputy assistant secretary for policy in the Administration for Children and Families, said if a large provider had lost its contracts under her watch, she would try to maintain as many of the provider’s staff and facilities as possible.“The logical thing to do to maximize safety and minimize waste of public funds would not be to immediately shut down an enormous number of shelters,” Ms. Cancian said. “The best course of action would be to figure out a plan for transitioning those facilities and transitioning those personnel.”The Office of Refugee Resettlement, the agency that oversees migrant shelters as part of the Administration for Children and Families, declined to speculate on Southwest Key’s grants. In response to a question asking if the agency had a plan if the charity were to lose its grants, a spokeswoman said the agency was always planning for unforeseen events.A Southwest Key spokesman, Jeff Eller, said the charity had had no discussions about losing its grants with the Office of Refugee Resettlement or about its shelter licenses with officials from Texas, Arizona or California. He said the charity was focused on providing “the best care possible” for children.Last year, the government cut off the contracts of another major shelter provider, International Educational Services, over suspected financial improprieties. Juan Sanchez, who founded Southwest Key and still runs it, also helped establish I.E.S., although he has not had a role there for decades.The closing of I.E.S. facilities was carried out haphazardly, straining the system for months. As many as 620 children needed to be rehoused; most landed in Southwest Key facilities.Comprehensive Health Services, a for-profit company based in Florida that ran one of the temporary shelters, leased three former I.E.S. shelters, all in the Rio Grande Valley in Texas, and then received a new government contract. Many original staff members were rehired.Two Southwest Key facilities closed last year — including the shelter where staff members were caught on video abusing children — as part of a settlement with Arizona after the charity failed to provide proof that its workers had received required background checks. Those shelters could house more than 500 children. Southwest Key’s six remaining shelters in Arizona also can no longer accept new children until the state says otherwise.If the government ends up seeking a provider to take over Southwest Key’s remaining shelters, Comprehensive Health Services, a workplace medical contractor that has provided support during emergencies, is a likely alternative. But the company has also been accused of improperly handling government money.In February 2017, Comprehensive Health Services paid a settlement of almost $4 million over improperly charging the government for medical screenings. The company said the overbilling was a mistake.The country’s second-largest provider, a San Antonio-based nonprofit called BCFS, seems unlikely to take over all Southwest Key’s shelters. Its primary focus has long been disaster relief and international aid, and the nonprofit has faced daily protests for running a sprawling tent city in Tornillo, Tex.The government may also try to delay deciding on Southwest Key contracts until it reduces the number of children in federal custody — or, at the least, reduces the number of children placed with Southwest Key.A major reason for the shelters’ overcrowding was the administration’s decision in June to require fingerprints for every member of a household that wanted to care for migrant children. As fingerprinting slowed placement, the average length of time children spent in shelters stretched from about a month to nearly two.In December, the Trump administration relaxed the fingerprinting requirements. The tent city, scheduled to close by Jan. 15, has already been reduced from 2,850 children to 1,500. In November, Southwest Key housed as many as 5,000, but as of Friday, there were only 3,900.Still, the temporary shelter run by Comprehensive Health Services is expanding, from a capacity of 1,350 to 2,350 children.AdvertisementSupported byErin Elizabeth Pearson and Brendan Michael Rivage-Seul were married April 13 at the office of Peter Atanasson, a registered officiant with the Superior Court of the District of Columbia who is a member of the staff of DC Elopements, which helps couples obtain marriage licenses by proxy.On May 4, the couple will take part in a celebration ceremony, to be led by their fathers, Thomas C. Pearson and D. Michael Rivage-Seul, at Maison des Polytechniciens, an events space in Paris.The bride, 36, is a senior researcher at Ipas, a global nonprofit organization based in Chapel Hill, N.C. Her research focuses on increasing women’s access to reproductive health services in developing countries. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master’s degree in public health from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She also holds a Ph.D. in public health from Johns Hopkins University.She is the daughter of Kerry L. Miller of Temple, Tex., and Mr. Pearson of China Spring, Tex. The bride’s father is the executive director of the Arc of McLennan County, a nonprofit organization in Waco, Tex., that promotes and protects the human rights of people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Her mother is the project coordinator in Waco for the Texas School Ready Project at the Economic Opportunities Advancement Corporation, a preschool teacher training program.The groom, also 36, is a foreign service officer currently stationed in Paris. He graduated cum laude from Lafayette College and received a master’s degree in public policy from Harvard.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagThe police in Phoenix have opened an investigation into allegations that a woman in a vegetative state at a private nursing facility was sexually assaulted and gave birth to a child last month, the authorities said Friday.Sgt. Tommy Thompson, a spokesman at the Phoenix Police Department, said that detectives were looking into the case at the  facility, which provides long-term care for people with intellectual disabilities. Sergeant Thompson declined to elaborate on how long the investigation had been open or other specifics about the case, which was reported Thursday by KPHO-TV, the CBS affiliate in Phoenix. The woman has not been publicly identified.A spokeswoman at the Arizona Department of Health Services said that the agency was aware of the allegations and had sent inspectors to check on patients at the institution, which is about seven miles south of downtown Phoenix. The facility is part of Hacienda HealthCare, which its website describes as an organization for some Phoenix-based health care programs and services.“During this time, the agency has required heightened safety measures be implemented at the facility, including increased staff presence during patient interactions; increased monitoring of the patient care areas; and increased security measures with respect to visitors at the facility,” the spokeswoman, Melissa Blasius-Nuanez, said on Friday.A Hacienda HealthCare spokesman said on Friday that the organization “stands fully committed to getting to the truth of what, for us, represents an unprecedented matter.”“We have recently become aware of a deeply disturbing incident involving the health and safety of a Hacienda resident,” said the spokesman, David Leibowitz. “While federal and state privacy laws prohibit us from publicly discussing a patient’s health or case, Hacienda has and will continue to cooperate fully with law enforcement and all the relevant regulatory agencies regarding this matter.”Mr. Leibowitz said Hacienda had started “a comprehensive internal review” of patient safety and protocols.The institution has at least 74 patient beds, according to federal records, and cares for people who have a range of developmental conditions and cognitive abilities. Some patients have been there for decades, according to state records.In 2013, the Arizona Department of Health Services found that a male employee at the facility had mistreated some patients by making sexually explicit remarks about them. In one episode, his colleagues overheard him tell a patient that the patient was going to have a “happy morning” because the employee’s penis was erect, the state found.In that report, investigators did not mention any instances of suspected physical abuse. The facility’s operators told the state that the male employee had been fired and new training on reporting patient abuse had been instituted.In 2017, state investigators cited the facility for not providing privacy to patients while they were naked and being showered. One patient complained that he felt uncomfortable when employees freely walked into the shower room when he was naked, according to a state report.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackThe chief executive of the corporation that runs a private nursing home in Arizona where a woman in a vegetative state was sexually assaulted and later gave birth to a child resigned on Monday, the company said in a statement.The company, Hacienda HealthCare, said the resignation of the executive, Bill Timmons, was unanimously accepted by its board of directors. David Leibowitz, a company spokesman, said Mr. Timmons had been chief executive for 28 years. Efforts to reach Mr. Timmons on Monday night were unsuccessful.Gary Orman, the executive vice president of the company’s board, said it would “accept nothing less than a full accounting of this absolutely horrifying situation, an unprecedented case that has devastated everyone involved, from the victim and her family to Hacienda staff at every level of our organization.”Hacienda HealthCare has been under intense scrutiny since the Phoenix Police Department said last week that it had opened an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the conception of the child, who was born last month. The woman has not been publicly identified.A spokeswoman at the Arizona Department of Health Services said it was also aware of the allegations and would conduct an inspection of the Hacienda Nursing Facility. Records posted to the Medicare website indicate that the care center received a “below average” rating from health inspectors in 2017. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services rated its quality of resident care as “much below average.”“I want to assure our patients, their loved ones, our community partners, the agencies we do business with, Governor Ducey and the residents of Arizona, we will continue to cooperate with Phoenix Police and the investigating agencies at all levels in every way possible,” Mr. Orman said in the statement. “And we will do everything in our power to ensure the safety of every single one of our patients and our employees.”[Detectives in Phoenix have opened an investigation into sexual assault allegations at the nursing home.]The nursing home, which is about seven miles south of downtown Phoenix, specializes in the care of people with intellectual disabilities and has at least 74 patient beds, according to federal records. State records indicate that some patients have lived there for decades.This is not the first time that investigators have expressed concern about the facility.In 2013, the Arizona Department of Health Services found that a male employee mistreated some patients by making sexually explicit remarks about them. A state report issued at the time did not allege physical abuse at the center, and its operators said the employee in question had been fired. It said employees would be given new training on how to report the suspected abuse of patients.In 2017, state investigators cited the facility for providing inadequate privacy to patients while they were naked or being showered. A report issued at the time reminded the center that it had an obligation to its residents.“Federal and state laws guarantee certain basic rights to all residents of this facility and they include the right to a dignified existence and to be treated with dignity,” it said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Brad WolvertonColleges are struggling to keep up with an increase in requests for mental health counseling. Many have hired additional staff members and are experimenting with new approaches to treatment.When Elizabeth Gong-Guy was named director of U.C.L.A.’s counseling and psychological services in 2005, the university was providing mental health services to less than 10 percent of its students. A decade later, when she moved into a different role, as executive director of U.C.L.A. campus and student resilience, more than 20 percent were under the university’s care.Seeing no end to the growth, U.C.L.A. became an early adopter of internet-based screenings and online mental health treatment. The university has also invested in “resilience peers” who are not licensed to provide counseling but who offer a release valve for stressed-out students.As part of a major research study, U.C.L.A. students can enroll in a six- to eight-week online program that teaches skills to combat anxiety and depression, working alongside a trained peer. The university’s goal: finding the most effective interventions for the largest number of students as quickly as possible.Nivi Ahlawat, a senior neuroscience major, tapped the university’s online resources to help her deal with an incident in her personal life. After using the program, she said she was encouraged to start a mindfulness practice and enroll in yoga and art classes to help reduce her anxiety. She has also served as a resilience peer, an experience that has influenced her career path.“This program fundamentally changed who I am and how I approach my life,” said Ms. Ahlawat, who plans to pursue graduate work in genetic counseling. “I may not remember the structures of all the intermediates of the glycolysis pathway I learned in biochemistry class. But I’ll remember what I’ve learned about active listening, motivational interviewing and mindfulness intervention for the rest of my life.”Kent State’s impetus to improve mental health services came from broad university mandates. The university, in Ohio, said it had added nine clinical staff positions across its eight campuses as part of a presidential push to emphasize student and staff mental health and wellness.The university has provided mental health training to more than 700 students, faculty and staff members, and created programs to help populations that do not traditionally seek counseling. Those efforts helped Kent State win a “healthy campus award ” last year from Active Minds, a national advocacy group that supports mental health awareness and education.Many students may not enjoy the benefits of therapy until they overcome more pressing obstacles, said Katy Troester-Trate, director of the health and wellness center at Jefferson Community College. The two-year institution in Watertown, N.Y., has many low-income and first-generation students, some of whom arrive on campus without basics like soap and toothpaste.“If you can’t afford groceries or safe care for your children, it’s hard to work on higher level things,” said Ms. Troester-Trate, a licensed social worker who keeps snacks in her desk for students.Her team has developed what she calls a “wraparound” model, providing an assortment of services outside of traditional talk therapy that help students address their overall well-being. Students can find many of those services at the college’s health and wellness center, which houses counseling offices alongside child-care assistance, a campus food pantry and more.Miranda Santos, a 24-year-old single parent, sought help there last year after failing a nursing class and having to repeat it during a semester-long weekend program. She received vouchers to help pay for child care and a food basket at Thanksgiving. She graduated last fall, with a job at an opioid-treatment clinic.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Best Buy Co Inc on Monday named Chief Financial Officer Corie Barry as the company's chief executive officer, the first woman to lead the consumer electronics retailer in its 53-year history.Barry, who joined Best Buy in 1999 and went on to become its finance chief in 2016, will become the company's fifth CEO when she takes over from Hubert Joly, who will step aside to become executive chairman in June.Barry along with Joly, a restructuring expert, turned around the struggling retailer that had been dogged by falling same-store sales and a takeover battle with founder Richard Schulze.She has also held several operational roles in her tenure, including heading the integration of health services provider GreatCall Inc, which Best Buy bought last year for $800 million. But much credit goes to Joly who, despite lacking a retail background, was instrumental in beefing up the company's website, delivery options and tech support services making it a formidable force in a world increasingly dominated by Amazon.com. Under Joly, the company has also placed emphasis on membership services like its "Geek Squad" tech support to boost margins as the importance of matching prices with online competition becomes ever more essential to keep customers visiting its stores and website.In Joly's near 7-year tenure as CEO, Best Buy's same store sales have risen for the past five years, while its shares have grown four-fold.However, after announcing the move, Best Buy's shares fell as much as 1.2 percent in morning trading."Investors appreciate the amazing job Hubert has done for the last eight years and the downtick reflects some fear of change," Wedbush analyst Michael Pachter said. Incoming CEO Barry, on a call with the media, said she would continue Best Buy's business strategy without any major shifts or leadership changes.Joly on the call said he would continue to advise Barry on key matters such as mergers and acquisitions, as he sits right across the hall from Barry's office in Richfield, Minnesota. Telsey Advisory Group's analyst Joseph Feldman said, "She is a strategic thinker who helped develop the turnaround strategy with current CEO Hubert Joly and has been at his side laying the plan for the future."AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMANILA — Bracing for life after Brexit, British hospitals badly need more nurses like Filipino Jobie Escalona, but she twice flunked a mandatory English language test that asked her to write up the merits of immigration and computer education in school.The 23-year-old Escalona, with three years experience in a private hospital in Manila, lost almost 3 months salary paying nearly $600 to sit the tests.Fed up, she was ready to give up on Britain and try Canada, one of several other countries short of nurses, until her father persuaded her to take the test a third time."I was already losing hope," she told Reuters. Finally, in January last year, she passed, having at last got a subject she felt comfortable writing about in the tough written section of the test.Asked to compare team and individual sports, Escalona had little trouble: "I was able to relate to it because I am a swimmer."But, her tortuous experience doesn't bode well for Britain's chances of adequately filling alarming staffing gaps in its healthcare services.With Brexit looming, the supply of nurses from European Union countries has almost dried up, with lots going home. And of the many foreign nationalities employed in Britain, Filipinos made up the largest number, with 10,719, according to a parliamentary paper.     As of June last year, 16 percent of nursing jobs in hospitals and community health services were held by foreigners - nearly a quarter of whom were Filipinos.Britain is already facing a shortage of 40,000 nurses, and once it leaves the EU, if it ever happens, the gap could widen to 50,000, enough to staff more than 40 small to medium-sized hospitals, according to a report commissioned by the Cavendish Coalition, a group of health and social care organizations.OUT OF THEIR COMFORT ZONE      The staffing crisis is increasing Britain's dependency on hiring from low cost countries like India and the Philippines, where English is widely spoken, yet the language test has proved to be a major obstacle.Philippine recruitment firm Louis International Manpower Services has received 1,000 job orders for nurses since 2015. It has only filled a quarter of them.  "It is not because of the lack of applications, but the English test," said Lilibeth Villas, documentation officer at the firm. "We have applicants who were interviewed in 2015, but they have not passed the test yet."Run by the British Council, IDP Education and Cambridge Assessment, the International English Language Test System (IELTS) gauges applicants' ability to speak, listen, read and write, and is used by employers around the world.Questions in the academic written section asks candidates to write short essays on diverse subjects. Examples given on the IELTS website included interpreting graphs on changes in radio and television audiences, and gender variations between full and part-time students, and discussing the pros and cons of nuclear technology and of regulating car ownership.Many candidates clearly find the weighty topics too daunting.Febin Cyriac, a business development manager at Envertiz Consultancy, a British healthcare recruitment firm that specializes in bringing in nurses from overseas, started a petition in change.org in 2014 that asked UK regulators to relax their IELTS scores. Working as a nurse himself, Cyriac said there are a good number of Indian or Filipino nurses with many years of experience working in Britain, but who are only working as assistant nurses in the National Health Service (NHS) and nursing homes."IELTS is the only barrier for them to practice as a nurse in the UK," said Cyriac, himself a nurse working in Britain.Still, the number of Filipinos in the NHS has risen by almost a third in the last two years, according to British government figures.Late last year, the pass mark for the writing section was lowered, but there are no immediate plans to make further changes to the test standards, said Andrea Sutcliffe, Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) Chief Executive and Registrar."We will continue to carefully monitor the impact of the recent changes. This change is part of a wider review of our overseas registration processes aimed at making it more straightforward and user-friendly for people with the right skills and knowledge to join our register in a timely way", Sutcliffe said. There is an Occupational English Test (OET), more suited to medical professionals, that foreign nurses can take. If they pass that test they would still have to sit the IELTS, but they would be eligible for a lower pass mark. The OET is more expensive, however, making it unattractive for low paid nurses.A London-based recruitment agency visited Manila recently to find nurses for Cambridge University, East Surrey and Royal Cornwall Hospitals, while there have also been recent hiring drives for hospital trusts in Oxford, Hull and Dudley.    Germany, Japan, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia are the other countries hiring Filipino nurses, said Bernard Olalia, head of the government's Philippine Overseas Employment Administration.         In January alone, Olalia's office received 1,000 job orders for nurses from Saudi Arabia."There are a lot of markets for our Filipino nurses," Olalia said, adding that it was understandable if they took jobs in places where the requirements were easier to fulfill.Filipino nurses who were recruited in the 1990s did not have to take the language tests, yet they are still in the NHS and providing good service, said Reydeluz Conferido, who was until recently the labor attache to the Philippines embassy in London.While there, Conferido called on British officials to review the requirements placed on overseas nurses to see whether they were serving the correct purpose or creating an artificial barrier.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ed O’LoughlinIreland diagnosed a record high number of new H.I.V. infections in 2018, new health data suggests, a trend that contrasts with a general decline in infections across Europe, and that some Irish activists attribute to poor sex health education and insufficient access to preventive drugs.Preliminary figures released last month by the Health Protection Surveillance Center, a state watchdog, suggested that 531 new cases of H.I.V. infection had been diagnosed in Ireland last year, an increase from 492 the previous year. And though intravenous drug use was the main way H.I.V. spread through Ireland in the late 1980s and early 1990s, in recent years sex between gay and bisexual men has become the most common route for transmission, accounting for more than half of new cases.Dr. Derval Igoe, a specialist in public health at the Irish government’s Health Services Executive, said that although the number of diagnosed H.I.V. infections in Ireland had recently increased after several years of stability, the rise did not necessarily indicate a widening epidemic.Overall, Ireland’s rate of new diagnoses, at 10.2 per 100,000 people in 2017, was higher than the European average of roughly 6.2 per 100,000. But it was not the highest in the European Union: Latvia reported 18.8 cases per 100,000 people, and Estonia 16.6 cases per 100,000, according to European health officials.Dr. Igoe said that a high proportion of the new cases involved migrants who had been infected before they came to the country, and people whose infection was detected through a local testing program introduced in 2016 that encourages people to discover their status early.“It’s really a rare bright note in the treatment of H.I.V. that we can tell people, ‘If you take a test, find out your status early on, you can deal with it so that you don’t get sick, and you won’t make other people sick either,’” she said. “As we say, if the virus is undetectable, it’s untransmittable too.”In recent years, government campaigns to reduce the harm from drugs, including the introduction of needle exchanges, methadone treatments and health education, have decreased the number of H.I.V. cases transmitted through drug use. In 2017, only 5 percent of the new H.I.V. diagnoses were found to have been transmitted via infected needles, while 53 percent were attributable to sex between men, according to health officials.At the same time, the proportion of new cases via heterosexual transmission, once a small part of the total, has now risen to 33 percent. Dr. Igoe said many of these new cases involved migrants who were not aware of an infection and had come from countries with a much higher prevalence of heterosexual H.I.V. transmission, such as in sub-Saharan Africa.Barriers to medicines may have also contributed to the increase. Andrew Leavitt, a spokesman for the Irish chapter of the international H.I.V. activist group Act Up, said the use of medications to prevent infection before and after exposure — so-called PrEP drugs that are particularly effective at reducing transmission among gay and bisexual men — has been hampered in Ireland by the slow introduction of cheaper generic versions of the drugs.These preventive drugs are now available as prescriptions in Ireland, at costs varying from 50 to 80 euros, or about $56 to $90, for a 30-day supply — prices that are down, Mr. Leavitt said, from several hundred euros a month for the patent brand, Truvada. In several other Western European countries, the drugs are available cheaply or at no charge from public health services.“The more widely available these drugs are, if they’re used properly, the fewer infections there will be,” Mr. Leavitt said.He said that while some of the increase in sexual transmission in recent years could, in part, be ascribed to the new popularity of “hookup” apps and to unsafe drug use in conjunction with sex, the activist group is particularly concerned about what it regards as the poor sex education in Irish schools.AdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszLONDON — Prince William, who has long spoken publicly about his emotional struggles, has taken his campaign for mental health awareness to Davos, Switzerland, urging global leaders to help break the stigma.Prince William, the Duke of Cambridge, who is second in line to the British throne, spoke candidly on Wednesday about the difficulty he faced in trying to get celebrities to sign on to his cause, revealing — without naming names — that not one had initially offered to join the mental health campaign that he has run since 2016 with his wife and his brother.It was only once they went public with their Heads Together campaign and “people realized that Catherine, Harry and I put our necks on the line here,” he said, that well-known names began supporting the effort. Its advocates now include the actress Judi Dench.At the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in the Swiss mountain resort of Davos, Prince William interviewed David Attenborough, the film producer of nature programs and a respected voice on climate change, on Monday. But he also spoke of the silence about mental health that was common in his parents’ and grandparents’ generations, and he called for people to be more open about their emotions.The duke, whose grandmother Queen Elizabeth II trained as a driver and mechanic during World War II, said the war had been so devastating that many people who had lived through it decided that keeping quiet about the traumas was the best way to deal with them. In many cases that stoicism was passed down to their children and grandchildren.“You know, we all learn from our parents; we all learn from how they deal with things,” William said, adding that a whole generation had inherited the attitude that the way to deal with problems was not to talk about them.Now is the time to break that pattern, he added, saying: “We should talk about it, and we should get over it.”To hear a member of the British royal family publicly discuss personal struggles with mental health was once unthinkable. But in 2017, Prince William’s brother, Harry, opened up about the emotional struggle he faced after the death of their mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, and about seeking counseling.“Some of the best people or easiest people to speak to is a shrink or whoever — the Americans call them shrinks — someone you have never met before,” Harry said on a podcast in 2017.Prince William, who had encouraged his brother, now the Duke of Sussex, to seek help after struggling with their mother’s death, said he had also struggled with mental health, during the two years he served as an air ambulance pilot. “I was dealing with a lot of trauma on a day-in, day-out basis,” he said in Davos on Wednesday. “We are all embarrassed by emotions. British people particularly — we are very embarrassed about revealing our emotions.”Since 2008, the National Health Service has worked to extend the scope of talk therapy. The duke’s campaign has been credited with encouraging Britons to turn to the therapy for treatment.Still, recent statistics showed that antidepressants were the fastest-growing prescription drugs. In England, the number of antidepressants dispensed more than doubled from 2006 to 2016, to 64.7 million, according to NHS Digital. Critics of Prime Minister Theresa May’s government have said that funding cuts to some mental health services have cast doubt on its commitment to treat mental health on parity with physical health.Last year, the British government appointed a minister to deal with loneliness, which affects more than nine million people in the country.At Davos, Prince William appeared on the same panel as Jacinda Ardern, the prime minister of New Zealand, who said that addressing mental health issues was a moral and economic imperative — one that affects productivity. She urged the business world to take on the issue.To Ms. Ardern, whose progressive politics have drawn international attention, it was also a personal one, as she leads a country dealing with high depression and suicide rates. “I’ve lost friends, and I wouldn’t have to look far in my cabinet to find others who have as well,” she said.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersABU DHABI — Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which head an Arab coalition fighting Iran-aligned Houthi forces in Yemen, will provide $200 million in aid to the country for use during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan, the UAE said on Monday.The Saudis and Emiratis are working with humanitarian groups to distribute the aid within areas controlled by both sides in the four-year conflict, UAE Minister of State for International Cooperation Reem al-Hashimy told reporters in Abu Dhabi.The aid is part of a $500 million joint food aid program announced in November.The UAE plays a leading role in Yemen's conflict as part of a Saudi-led military coalition that intervened in 2015 against the Houthi movement to restore the internationally recognized government of President Abd-Rabbu Mansour Hadi. The UAE donated $5.41 billion between April 2015 and December 2018 to support emergency food aid, energy supply, and health services, according to ministry statistics.Among international organizations, the biggest beneficiary was the U.N. World Food Program (WFP), which received $287 million in aid from the UAE. During the month of Ramadan, which this year begins in early May, devout Muslims fast during daylight hours.Yemen's war has killed tens of thousands of people - some of them from coalition air strikes - and driven 10 million to the brink of famine. The Arabian Peninsula country is also suffering its third major outbreak of cholera since the conflict began. In December, the warring parties reached a deal at U.N.-led peace talks for a ceasefire and troop withdrawal from the Red Sea port of Hodeidah, Yemen's lifeline for fuel and food.The truce has largely held but the withdrawal has stalled due to mistrust among the parties, calling into question the U.N. goal of further talks to agree a framework for political negotiations to end the war. Violence and displacement also continue in other parts of Yemen not subject to the ceasefire.On Sunday the Houthi news outlet Masirah reported from the Houthi-controlled capital Sanaa that 11 people, including five students, were killed in a coalition air strike on a school and nearby houses. On Monday, the European Union's humanitarian service reported an air strike on a "hangar" in Sanaa that damaged civilian houses and a neighboring school.The spokesman for the Saudi-led coalition denied reports that its forces had targeted residential areas in Sanaa.Reuters was unable to independently confirm the attack or casualties. U.N. Yemen aid coordinator Lise Grande called for efforts topinpoint the circumstances "that led to this tragedy". AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensA federal judge on Sunday granted a request by more than a dozen states to temporarily block the Trump administration from putting into effect new rules that would make it easier for employers to deny women health insurance coverage for contraceptives.Contraception is covered by the Affordable Care Act as a preventive health service, something employers and insurers are generally required to provide at no charge. But the Trump administration developed rules to allow employers to opt out of the mandate if they had religious or moral objections.A version of those rules was stymied by the courts in 2017, so the administration issued a new set of rules in November, which had been scheduled to take effect on Monday.However, the judge, Haywood S. Gilliam Jr. of the United States District Court in Oakland, Calif., granted a request by 13 states and the District of Columbia for a preliminary injunction, writing that the new rules “are nearly identical to” the ones that he had previously blocked.The plaintiffs, he wrote, had done enough to bolster their claim that the religious exemption and the moral exemption sought by the Trump administration were “not in accordance with” the Affordable Care Act.After Judge Gilliam blocked the initial rules, the Trump administration appealed. Last month the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the District Court’s ruling but limited the injunction’s scope.With that ruling in mind, Judge Gilliam made clear that the preliminary injunction he granted on Sunday bars enforcement in only the states that sued.“The Court fully recognizes that limiting the scope of this injunction to the plaintiff states means that women in other states are at risk of losing access to cost-free contraceptives when the final rules take effect,” he wrote in Sunday’s order.States had also argued they would suffer economic harm as a result of the rules because they would have had to provide contraceptive coverage or pay for medical treatment and social services for more women with unintended pregnancies.Judge Gilliam agreed, writing they had “shown that they are likely to suffer irreparable harm as a result of this violation, that the balance of hardships tips sharply in their favor, and that the public interest favors granting the injunction.”In a statement, Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, which is listed as the lead plaintiff in the case, said: “The law couldn’t be clearer — employers have no business interfering in women’s health care decisions.”“Today’s court ruling stops another attempt by the Trump administration to trample on women’s access to basic reproductive care,” he said. “It’s 2019, yet the Trump administration is still trying to roll back women’s rights. Our coalition will continue to fight to ensure women have access to the reproductive health care they are guaranteed under the law.”Mr. Becerra’s office suggested in its statement that access to cost-free birth control for “millions of women and their families” was at stake. A regulatory impact analysis of the administration’s new rules estimated that “no more than 126,400 women of childbearing age” would have been affected, court documents said.“No American should be forced to violate his or her own conscience in order to abide by the laws and regulations governing our healthcare system,” said Caitlin Oakley, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services, the lead defendant in the case. “The final rules affirm the Trump Administration’s commitment to upholding the freedoms afforded all Americans under our Constitution.”In court documents opposing the request for an injunction, lawyers for the Justice Department argued that the agencies involved “reasonably exercised their rule-making authority to protect a narrow class of sincere religious and moral objectors from being forced to facilitate practices that conflict with their beliefs.”As part of the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration said preventive health services included all methods of contraception approved for women by the Food and Drug Administration.But under rules issued in October 2017, the Trump administration expanded exemptions from the contraceptive coverage mandate, allowing employers to opt out if they had religious or moral objections. The moves were meant to help President Trump carry out a promise he made about not allowing “people of faith to be targeted, bullied or silenced anymore.”The Trump administration’s revised rules, published in November 2018, said that employers could obtain an exemption if they objected to some or all forms of contraception based on their “sincerely held religious beliefs” or moral convictions. Those rules also emphasized that female employees could obtain contraceptives at family-planning clinics as an alternative to seeking them through health insurance.Last month, the five states that opposed the initial rules — California, Delaware, Maryland, New York and Virginia — filed a second complaint over the revised rules, which was joined by Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Minnesota, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington State and the District of Columbia.Because of the injunction Judge Gilliam ordered on Sunday, none of those states will need to comply with the Trump administration’s expanded exemptions until the case is resolved.Robert Pear contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia Jacobs and Matt StevensA doctor with the Department of Veterans Affairs was shot in the neck when a patient in a wheelchair opened fire Wednesday evening in the emergency room of a V.A. hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla., the authorities said.The suspect, Lawrence Bon, 59, had been at West Palm Beach V.A. Medical Center since early in the morning and had been “combative” with employees all day, Special Agent Michael D. Leverock, an F.B.I. spokesman, said in a phone interview. Mr. Bon began shooting a pistol at about 6:20 p.m., while he was undergoing a psychological evaluation, Agent Leverock said.The injured doctor, whose named was not released, was shot in the neck while trying to subdue Mr. Bon, who is a double amputee. Another hospital employee was grazed by a bullet, Agent Leverock said. The employees’ injuries were not life-threatening.Mr. Bon spent a very short amount of time in the military in the mid-1970s, Agent Leverock said, and his amputations were unrelated.The doctor who was shot was taken to another hospital for treatment, said Mary Kay Rutan, a spokeswoman for the medical center’s network. The facility was secure and would be operational Thursday, she said.The F.B.I. took over the investigation of the shooting because it occurred in a federal building, Agent Leverock said. Mr. Bon was scheduled to appear in federal court on Thursday.The West Palm Beach V.A. Medical Center, about 75 miles north of Miami on Florida’s eastern coast, is a general medical, psychiatric and surgical facility, according to its website.The 153-bed facility opened in 1995 and “provides health services to veterans throughout South Florida,” both at the main facility in West Palm Beach and six contractor-operated outpatient clinics, a 2017 report said. The facility also operates a 108-bed “community living center” and a 13-bed “blind rehabilitation service,” according to the report. During the 2017 fiscal year, the facility served about 60,000 veterans, the report said.The West Palm Beach V.A. Medical Center is one of about 170 medical centers and nearly 1,000 clinics run by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Together, they treat about nine million veteran patients each year.The V.A. is a regular target of ire for some veterans; some are angry about delays, others fume over rulings on monthly disability compensation; some see the department as a stand-in for a nation they feel has served them poorly after they came home from war.Dave Philipps contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byHow the region became home to an epidemic of obstetric violence.By Vanessa BarbaraMs. Barbara is an author and a contributing opinion writer.SÃO PAULO, Brazil — Five years ago, a Brazilian woman in labor was detained by police officers and forced to deliver by C-section.The woman, Adelir de Goes, had already had two cesarean sections — an all-too-common procedure in my country — and was hoping to deliver her third child vaginally. But her baby was in breech presentation. Doctors felt that a vaginal birth would put the baby in danger.And so they got a court order for a mandatory operation. Ms. de Goes was almost fully dilated and preparing to return to the hospital when nine police officers knocked on her door to take her away. In the hospital, she was anesthetized, and operated on without her consent. Women’s rights groups denounced the procedure as an assault on her autonomy and a violation of her right to make informed decisions about her baby’s health as well as her own.But if Ms. de Goes’s case was especially notorious, it was also far from exceptional. According to a 2010 survey, one in every four Brazilian women has suffered mistreatment during labor. Many of them were denied pain relief or weren’t informed about a procedure that was being done to them. Twenty-three percent were verbally abused by a health professional; one of the most common insults was “Na hora de fazer não chorou” (“You didn’t cry like that when making the baby”). Another survey found that, in 2011, 75 percent of women in labor in hospitals were not provided water and food (last year, I became one of them), although this practice is not supported by scientific evidence. The World Health Organization recommends that low-risk women in labor eat or drink as they wish.[The Opinion section is now on Instagram. Follow us at @nytopinion.]But some doctors are unaware of the concept of “wish” as it relates to women. Faced with a patient who refuses a procedure, they do it to her anyway. “I am the boss here,” they insist.Outraged by this enduring abuse, Latin American women in the last few decades have helped to identify and to legally define a different type of gender-based violence: “obstetric violence.” It refers to disrespectful, abusive or neglectful treatment during pregnancy, childbirth, abortion and the postpartum period.One example is episiotomy, a surgical cut in the vagina made during labor that has been proven ineffective and even harmful when performed routinely. Doctors still perform it in Brazil, with or without the women’s consent. And when it’s suturing time, they sometimes include an extra stitch to supposedly tighten the vagina to increase male pleasure — a “husband stitch.” (Five years ago, in Rio de Janeiro, an obstetrician was caught on video asking a patient’s husband, “Do you want it small, medium or large?”)The struggle against obstetric violence in Latin America began in the 1990s with activists’ efforts to disseminate evidence-based practices in maternal and newborn care. Those efforts were encouraged by a document issued by the World Health Organization in 1996 (“Care in Normal Birth: A Practical Guide”), which warns against turning a normal physiological event into a medical procedure, via “the uncritical adoption of a range of unhelpful, untimely, inappropriate and/or unnecessary interventions, all too frequently poorly evaluated.”Within a few years of the report, Uruguay (2001), Argentina (2004), Brazil (2005) and Puerto Rico (2006) approved laws granting women the right to be accompanied during labor and delivery. Brazil and Argentina also developed broader legislation encouraging the “humanization” of childbirth.In 2007, Venezuela became the first nation to create a law specifically addressing obstetric violence. Two years later, Argentina enacted a similar law; it was followed by Panama, multiple states in Mexico, Bolivia (with a law referring to “violence against reproductive rights” and “violence in health services”) and El Salvador (this one calling for dignified treatment in maternal and reproductive health services).These laws came not a moment too soon. In Latin America, reports of obstetric violence have been extensively documented. They’ve even come to be expected, as if this is the price women have to pay for having any sexuality. The most common kinds of mistreatment are non-consensual procedures (including sterilization), non-evidence-based interventions like routine episiotomies, and physical, verbal and sexual abuse.We can only wonder why obstetric abuse is so ubiquitous in Latin America, a place where motherhood is often sanctified. Maybe it’s precisely because of this. In our conservative, patriarchal societies, a woman’s true vocation is to be a mother. We must sacrifice ourselves to fulfill our biological destinies. This means submitting to the wills of husbands and doctors; selflessness and devotion are our most prized attributes. And if we remain long-suffering saints, we cannot gain sexual consciousness, or bodily autonomy.Putting a name to the practice of obstetric violence is the first step toward standing up against it, and so, of course, doctors have begun fighting back. Last year, Brazil’s Federal Council of Medicine condemned the term obstetric violence as an aggression toward doctors bordering on “hysteria.” Note that the council did not condemn the violence itself, merely the word choices of the victims. I wonder if it used the word “hysteria” on purpose.In a similar vein, in February, Rio de Janeiro’s Regional Medical Council issued a resolution forbidding obstetricians from signing personal birth plans, calling them a deleterious “fad.” The council also argued that childbirth is risky and demands quick decisions that doctors should be able to make without the fear of legal repercussions. “There is no time to explain what will be done or to revoke birth plans,” it stated. According to the council, obstetric violence is “another invented term to defame doctors.”It is disappointing to see that some doctors are more concerned with the way this semantic “aggression” injures their prestige than with the concrete, horrendous reality of abuse that abounds against women in childbirth, not only in Latin America but elsewhere. It’s plain that they resent the limitations on their authority. But pregnancy is not an exception to the idea that a capable patient has the right to make informed decisions about her medical care. Health care providers should not “explain what will be done” to pregnant women; they should honestly discuss our choices and respect our bodily autonomy.And choosing another term such as “disrespect during childbirth” instead of “obstetric violence” will not soften the atrocities often committed by caregivers in the name of “doctor knows best.”Vanessa Barbara, a contributing opinion writer, is the editor of the literary website A Hortaliça and the author of two novels and two nonfiction books in Portuguese.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressANNAPOLIS, Md. — In a countermeasure to a proposed Trump administration rule, Maryland would become the first state to stop participating in a federal family planning program known as Title X, under a bill that received final approval Wednesday in the Maryland General Assembly.The Maryland Senate voted 28-16 for the measure, sending the bill to Republican Gov. Larry Hogan, whose spokesman said the governor would review the bill before deciding whether to sign it.The rule proposed by President Donald Trump would prohibit family planning clinics funded by the program from making abortion referrals. Critics denounce that as a "gag rule." The Maryland measure would prevent the state's health department from accepting Title X money if it's conditioned on excluding family planning providers and medically approved services."Maryland is very fortunate that our legislators safeguard a woman's right to access family planning services," said Karen Nelson, CEO of Planned Parenthood of Maryland. "Our state has to step in far too often to fulfill the responsibility of the federal government."Sen. Bryan Simonaire, a Republican who voted against the bill, said it was bad policy, because it would prevent federal money from flowing into the state that could help faith-based organizations provide health services. He described the debate over the bill as "a turf battle protecting one group against another," and expressed support for the administration's rule."It protects Title X health care providers so they are not required to choose between participating in the program and violating their own consciences by providing abortion counseling and referrals, and that's really what's at the heart of this," Simonaire said of the administration's rule change.The Title X program, enacted in 1970, makes family planning services available to low-income individuals for free or at low cost.Sen. Ron Young, a Democrat who supported the bill, said no organizations are being shut out, because they can apply directly to the federal government for funding."It is our policy that family planning should be allowed to discuss the full range of family planning, which is what you can do at the organizations that we support through the state," Young said. "If we were to accept these funds, it would be going against our state policy of full planning."The state would fund Maryland's Family Planning Program at the same level as the previous year. Maryland approved legislation in 2017 that created a state-funded family planning program in the event of changes at the federal level. Hogan did not veto the bill, but it became law without his signature.Maryland recently joined more than a dozen states that have filed lawsuits against the administration over the rule.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSAN DIEGO — The Trump administration wants up to two years to find potentially thousands of children who were separated from their families at the border before a judge halted the practice last year, a task that it says is more laborious than previous efforts because the children are no longer in government custody.The Justice Department said in a court filing late Friday that it will take at least a year to review about 47,000 cases of unaccompanied children taken into government custody between July 1, 2017 and June 25, 2018 — the day before U.S. District Judge Dana Sabraw halted the general practice of splitting families. The administration would begin by sifting through names for traits most likely to signal separation — for example, children under 5.The administration would provide information on separated families on a rolling basis to the American Civil Liberties Union, which sued to reunite families and criticized the proposed timeline on Saturday."We strongly oppose a plan that could take up to two years to locate these families," said Lee Gelernt, the ACLU's lead attorney. "The government needs to make this a priority."Sabraw ordered last year that more than 2,700 children in government care on June 26, 2018 be reunited with their families, which has largely been accomplished. Then, in January, the U.S. Health and Human Services Department's internal watchdog reported that thousands more children may have been separated since the summer of 2017. The department's inspector general said the precise number was unknown.The judge ruled last month that he could hold the government accountable for families that were separated before his June order and asked the government submit a proposal for the next steps. A hearing is scheduled April 16.Sheer volume makes the job different than identifying children who were in custody at the time of the judge's June order, Jonathan White, a commander of the U.S. Public Health Service and Health and Human Services' point person on family reunification, said in an affidavit.White, whose work has drawn strong praise from the judge, would lead the effort to identify additional families on behalf of Health and Health and Human Services with counterparts at Customs and Border Protection and U.S. Immigration and Customs and Enforcement. Dr. Barry Graubard, a statistics expert at the National Cancer Institute, developed a system to flag for early attention those most likely to have been separated.The vast majority of separated children are released to relatives, but many are not parents. Of children released in the 2017 fiscal year, 49 percent went to parents, 41 percent to close relatives such as an aunt, uncle, grandparent or adult sibling and 10 percent to distant relatives, family friends and others.“A lot of people in my position wouldn’t want to say anything,” Marquette guard Markus Howard, the Big East player of the year, said of going public about seeking mental health counseling.CreditCreditVincent Tullo for The New York TimesSupported byBy Pat BorziMILWAUKEE — The image of Markus Howard on the wall of the Marquette basketball meeting room seems perfect. It shows Howard, the Golden Eagles’ leading scorer and one of the most dynamic players in the Big East Conference, in the middle of a team huddle. All eyes are on him, his stature and his leadership unquestioned.Marquette (24-8) pulled out of its four-game losing streak with an 86-54 rout of St. John’s (21-12) n Thursday night in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament at Madison Square Garden behind 30 points from Howard. For his team to continue to advance, Howard, who on Wednesday was named the Big East’s player of the year, will need to keep making his assortment of fallback jumpers, 3-pointers and twisting drives to the basket. That is the basketball burden Howard, a 5-foot-11 junior guard, carries onto the court. But it is not why the image on the wall makes him uncomfortable.“A lot of what I want to be remembered for here at Marquette is not for what I’ve done on the court, but what I’ve done off,” Howard said. “I think my impact is made bigger when I do something for somebody else.”Like talking about why he sees a therapist.Marquette, like many universities, offers mental health services to students who request them. Howard, unlike many college athletes, is eager to discuss his experience.For about a year, he has been seeing a licensed clinical social worker trained in psychotherapy, someone he and his family refer to as a sports psychologist. That suggests someone versed in the mental side of athletic performance.But Howard said he sought help for balancing the daily demands of college life, managing class work and outside interests with basketball. His weekly therapy sessions are continuing, he said. With more and more athletes publicly discussing their mental health struggles, from the Olympians Michael Phelps and Gracie Gold to the N.B.A. star Kevin Love, Howard said he felt he owed it to anyone reluctant to ask for help to lend his voice as well.“A lot of people in my position wouldn’t want to say anything,” Howard said. “It’s a duty of mine, to be in the position I’m in, to be able to raise awareness of these kinds of issues going on in our sport. I would be doing a disservice to the people around me and the people in the same situation as me if I didn’t speak up.”That is not the only instance in which Howard’s leadership extends beyond basketball and his team. Together with the lacrosse player Nick Singleton, Howard founded a Fellowship of Christian Athletes chapter on campus after they returned from a spring trip to build basketball courts in Costa Rica with a group of Marquette athletes. Howard is also one of two student-athletes on the 16-member N.C.A.A. Division I men’s basketball oversight committee.“Given all the success that he has, he still has, to me, a servant’s heart,” Coach Steve Wojciechowski said.Three years ago, Howard arrived on Marquette’s campus in Milwaukee as a 17-year-old prodigy from Chandler, Ariz., by way of the high school powerhouse Findlay Prep in Henderson, Nev. He had just won an under-17 world championship with U.S.A. Basketball.As a college freshman, he led the nation in 3-point shooting, setting a Marquette record (.547) and making the Big East’s all-freshman team. A year later he averaged 20.4 points and set Marquette’s single-game scoring record: 52 points, in an overtime victory at Providence. After the game, Friars Coach Ed Cooley described Howard as Superman.But near the end of that season, with increasing attention on his play and Marquette’s, Howard said he felt overwhelmed. His parents, Chuck and Noemi, sensed something was wrong when they visited him for a game; so did Wojciechowski and the Golden Eagles’ staff. Howard seemed quieter, more withdrawn.Chuck Howard, formerly the athletics performance director at Grand Canyon University in Phoenix, figured Marquette had mental health services available for athletes. The family discussed Howard’s engaging with them with the basketball staff.“That was something we felt like would be helpful for Markus, having an outlet to talk to somebody about what he’s feeling, thinking, and all the things that are coming at him,” Wojciechowski said. “We encouraged it. We encourage anything that is going to help our guys become better people, because better people make better players.”Howard agreed.“Mainly, it’s getting how things away from the court impact me on the court,” he said. “We can see what might be causing a problem, then try to fix it to where it doesn’t even come into contact when I do start playing, so I can have a free mind when I play.“As a student-athlete, you think your life revolves around the game. That’s not the case. I want to talk about all aspects of life so I can grow in all aspects of life, not just in my sport. I feel like if I’m the best version of myself, I can give the best version of myself to other people. So I want to be able to do that on the court and off.”At times, Chuck Howard said, Markus had to be prodded to go to sessions. “Now it’s been a consistent thing for him,” Chuck Howard said. “It’s really been helpful. And he felt led to speak about it. It’s not something we pushed him to do or asked him to do. He just felt led because he saw the benefit of what it did for him.”Until the last few games, Howard has been an even better version of the player he was last year.Howard broke his single-game scoring record — and set a Big East mark — with 53 points in a 106-104 overtime victory at Creighton on Jan. 9, a game in which he made 10 3-pointers in 14 attempts. In games through Monday, Howard led the Big East and ranked sixth nationally in Division I in scoring, at 25 points a game. He was making 3.61 3-pointers a game, also sixth best, and his 90.2 free-throw percentage ranked ninth in the country.Howard honed his shooting in intense summer sessions directed by his older brother Desmond, a former college player. Their unconventional drills feature pull-up jumpers from a step inside half court, and arcing shots over folded bleachers flipped on their side. Teammates say they are used to Howard’s creativity.“Playing with him is kind of crazy, in a good way,” forward Sam Hauser said. “Sometimes he gets that look in his eye where you just have to give him the ball and watch him work, work his magic. It’s cool to see where he’s grown and where he can still grow.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Joseph P. FriedKenneth A. Gibson, who became the first black mayor of a major Northeastern city when Newark voters, still recovering from racial rioting three years earlier, elected him in 1970 to the first of four terms, died on Friday in West Orange, N.J. He was 86.His death, at a rehabilitation facility, was confirmed on Sunday by his wife, Camille Gibson, who said that he had been ill for some time and that she could not single out a specific cause.In taking City Hall in that historic 1970 election, Mr. Gibson won a bitterly fought, racially divisive contest inflamed by the memory of nearly a week of rioting by black people three years earlier that took 26 lives and left extensive destruction.As he campaigned to oust a two-term white incumbent and fellow Democrat in that nonpartisan election, Mr. Gibson, a structural engineer for the city who had been active with civil rights groups, outlined his vision of a Gibson administration.“We’re going to make this a model city,” he told Jet magazine. “If you talk about the urban problem in America, it’s here. If we solve the urban problem here, we can export our solution to other areas. I’ve always maintained that wherever American cities are going, Newark is going to get there first.”Decisively defeating the incumbent, Hugh J. Addonizio — who was on trial on corruption charges during the last weeks of the campaign and later convicted — Mr. Gibson drew national attention, and he quickly became a spokesman for struggling cities.Low-key and unflappable, he faced daunting problems in Newark, New Jersey’s largest city. Poverty was widespread and housing was deteriorating. Unemployment and crime rates were high. Schools were failing and health services were wanting. The downtown was badly in need of revitalization. And all of this was set against a backdrop of continuing racial tensions and white flight, contributing to a declining population that had become more than half black.Mr. Gibson would ultimately be defeated in his bid for a fifth term in 1986, judged by voters to have fallen short of his goals. Assessments of his tenure were indeed mixed.He acquired federal funds and built or rehabilitated “thousands of housing units,” the New Jersey Historical Society said. But the city’s population “continued to drop while crime and unemployment remained high,” it said.Martin A. Bierbaum, then on the public administration faculty at Rutgers University, said after Mr. Gibson’s defeat in 1986 that Mr. Gibson had “had a very difficult job to do,” but that “the city has bottomed out now and there are some signs of improvement.”Other analysts differed over his hiring practices. Some saw cronyism and political loyalty tests at work; others saw him simply engaging in the traditional patronage that is necessary to get legislation through the City Council.Cronyism was at the center of a 1982 state criminal trial in which Mr. Gibson was charged with conspiring to create a no-show job for a former city councilman. Mr. Gibson admitted that he had given the man the job, but said that nobody had told him that the employee was not showing up for work. Mr. Gibson was acquitted.After leaving office, Mr. Gibson himself offered mixed reviews of his performance.In a 1997 interview with The New York Times, he cited his successes in obtaining federal and state funds for needs like urban renewal and hiring police officers and sanitation workers for his revenue-starved city. But he acknowledged that most of the aid had relieved the city’s problems only for a time.And in a 2005 interview with The Times, he spoke of gratifying accomplishments, like improving the city’s health services, leading to reductions in its high rates of tuberculosis, infant mortality and the deaths of mothers during childbirth. But he also voiced regret at having been unable to “attract major job-producing industries to the city.”Kenneth Allen Gibson was born in Enterprise, Ala., on May 15, 1932, the elder of two sons of Willie and Daisy Gibson. His father was a butcher who worked in the Swift packing plant in Kearny, N.J.; his mother, Daisy, was a seamstress. The family moved to Newark when Ken was a boy. While attending Central High School in the city, he worked as a hotel porter and played saxophone in dance bands.After graduating in 1950, Mr. Gibson enrolled in the Newark College of Engineering (which later became part of the New Jersey Institute of Technology), but soon dropped out because of financial problems.Over the next decade he worked in a factory and with the state’s highway department, spent two years in the Army — serving in Hawaii with the 65th Engineer Battalion — and re-enrolled in the New Jersey engineering college. Attending classes in the evenings while working days, he graduated in 1962.Mr. Gibson first ran for mayor in 1966, finishing third. In the 1970 campaign, Mr. Addonizio contended that Mr. Gibson, who had a reputation as a racial moderate, was a “puppet” in the hands of black extremists seeking to gain control of the city. He repeatedly noted that one of Mr. Gibson’s major supporters was LeRoi Jones (later known as Amiri Baraka), the poet, playwright and black nationalist who was a native of Newark. (Mr. Baraka’s son Ras J. Baraka is the current mayor of Newark.)Mr. Gibson argued that it was time to end dominance by machine politicians and sought to supplement his overwhelming support among black residents by successfully courting votes among liberal and moderate white people, who widened his victory margin.(Mr. Baraka publicly split with the mayor in 1973, saying Mr. Gibson had become a “puppet” of the city’s business community.)Mr. Gibson’s prominent early challenges included a rancorous 11-week teachers’ strike in 1971 that pitted the militants in the black community against militants among whites.These forces also clashed over a project, sponsored by Mr. Baraka and supported by Mr. Gibson, to build high-rise apartments for low- and moderate-income families in a predominantly white neighborhood. Demonstrations at the site by white opponents forced construction to be suspended, and it never resumed.In his first re-election race, in 1974, Mr. Gibson handily defeated Anthony Imperiale, who was the leader of the housing project’s opponents and a spokesman for the city’s embittered whites generally.Mr. Gibson won two more terms before facing Sharpe James, a city councilman, in 1986.In that election, Mr. Gibson boasted of his gains in health care and housing. He pointed to new office buildings, built under his watch, that were reinvigorating the city’s downtown. Where there were deficits in the past, he could show a budget surplus.But Mr. James prevailed, criticizing Mr. Gibson as having not done enough for the city’s most impoverished residents, pointing to continuing high joblessness, crime and blight. Mr. James would go on to serve as mayor for 20 years.While mayor, Mr. Gibson twice ran unsuccessfully in Democratic primaries for governor. In 1998 he lost a race for Essex County Executive.In 2001, he was tried on federal charges of bribery and of defrauding the Board of Education of Irvington, N.J., of up to $1 million while his consulting firm was supervising school construction and renovation there. The jury deadlocked, and the case ended with Mr. Gibson’s pleading guilty to tax evasion and receiving probation.AdvertisementSupported byBy Mitch Smith and Julie TurkewitzSAULT STE. MARIE, Mich. — For one tribe of Chippewa Indians in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, the government shutdown comes with a price tag: about $100,000, every day, of federal money that does not arrive to keep health clinics staffed, food pantry shelves full and employees paid.The tribe is using its own funds to cover the shortfalls for now. But if the standoff in Washington continues much longer, that stopgap money will be depleted. Later this month, workers could be furloughed and health services could be pared back. “Everything,” said Aaron Payment, the chairman of the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe, “is on the table.”For many Americans who are not federal workers or contractors, a shutdown is a minor inconvenience. A trip to a national park may be canceled. A call to a government office may go unanswered. But for Native American tribes, which rely heavily on federal money to operate, a shutdown can cripple their most basic functions.All across Indian Country, the federal shutdown slices deep. Generations ago, tribes negotiated treaties with the United States government guaranteeing funds for services like health care and education in exchange for huge swaths of territory.“The federal government owes us this: We prepaid with millions of acres of land,” said Mr. Payment, who also criticized the shutdown on Monday from the stage at his tribe’s New Year’s powwow. “We don’t have the right to take back that land, so we expect the federal government to fulfill its treaty and trust responsibility.”On the Navajo Nation, a mostly rural reservation of red rock canyon that spans parts of New Mexico, Arizona and Utah, the government shutdown has already been difficult, said Russell Begaye, the Navajo Nation’s president.A blanket of snow has covered the region, but roads are unplowed because federal maintenance has stopped. Many people are now trapped in their homes, unable to make the 20- or 50-mile journey to buy water, groceries and medicine, said Mr. Begaye.The Interior Department’s Indian Affairs bureau provides basic services to about 1.9 million American Indians and Alaska Natives, often by funneling funds to the tribes to administer the services themselves or by employing federal workers to run the programs. This means that services from law enforcement to tribal courts, disaster relief and road maintenance are often completed by tribal employees whose salaries rely on federal funding — or by federal workers, some of whom are tribal citizens.The Bureau of Indian Affairs was set to furlough 2,295 of 4,057 employees during a shutdown, meaning at least some of those services and salaries will be slowed or stopped.Because the federal government contributes to the salaries of many members of the Navajo Nation, Mr. Begaye said the lack of pay would hurt families on the reservation, where a single salary can support a family of six, 10 or even 12 people. Mr. Begaye said loan sharks have started circling, leaving fliers on cars and doorsteps.“It just kind of snowballs into our people doing things that they know they shouldn’t do and further financially obligating themselves,” Mr. Begaye said. “They have to keep their heater going. They have to keep their water on.”On the Bois Forte Indian Reservation in northern Minnesota, tribal officials have instituted a hiring freeze and are planning to meet later this week to discuss budget cuts. Cathy Chavers, the tribe’s chairwoman, said tribal functions were continuing for now, but “it will probably come down to minimal, minimal basic services” if the shutdown lasts another month.Already, police officers on her reservation, who are employees of the federal government and not the tribe, were being forced to work without pay.“These officers are putting their lives on the line,” Ms. Chavers said, “and they don’t know if they’re going to get a paycheck or not.”Tribes are making plans for how much longer they can operate, while not knowing whether they will be reimbursed for shutdown-related expenses. Officials with the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin said that they had made contingency plans but that they could manage at least another month without any cuts. The Shoshone-Bannock Tribes in Idaho posted on Facebook that they had enough money to operate at full strength through Saturday, but would then have to re-evaluate.“Things do grind to a halt,” said Kevin Washburn, who served as the assistant secretary for Indian Affairs under President Barack Obama. “Indian Country stops moving forward” during a shutdown, Mr. Washburn said, “and starts moving backward.”A spokesman for the Interior Department, reached on New Year’s Eve, said so many people were out of the office for the holiday, or furloughed, that he had no information about the way the shutdown was playing out in Indian Country.“Literally, there’s a handful of people that are currently excepted and able to work,” said the spokesman, John Bockmier, about his office. “I just don’t have any details from around the country to give you,” he went on, “because there is no one out there that is currently able to provide that information for me.”For tribes, this has become a familiar, painful scenario. In 2013, during Mr. Obama’s presidency, a lengthy shutdown forced a California tribe to close its child care program. In Minnesota, a tribe postponed nonemergency medical procedures. And the Sault Ste. Marie Chippewa in Michigan lost several employees to layoffs, including hard-to-replace medical staff who did not return after that shutdown ended.With those bad memories in mind, the Sault Chippewa tribal council approved a resolution last month (on the same day President Trump sparred with Democratic leaders about a border wall on television) that allowed leaders to shuffle funds if federal money stopped flowing. That step has delayed the worst of the pain, but it can help only for so long. Already, tribal officials have sent a memo encouraging frugality and canceled the purchase of a new computer server.“We’re not going to collapse. We may have to decide, ‘What we can do with our own funding?’” said Christine McPherson, the Sault Chippewa Tribe’s executive director. “But we’ll never close.”There have been some efforts to limit the impact. Representative Markwayne Mullin, Republican of Oklahoma, introduced a bill last month that would have maintained funding for the Indian Health Service during a shutdown. His proposal did not make it to a vote, but Mr. Mullin, who said “I have no read on how long” the shutdown would last, said he hoped his idea would gain bipartisan traction if the broader impasse stretches on.“This is a true federal obligation to treaties to Native Americans,” said Mr. Mullin, who is a citizen of the Cherokee Nation and who received health care at an Indian Health Service facility while growing up. “This is different than really any other government agency.”If the shutdown continues, it could also curtail a Department of Agriculture food program that helped feed about 90,000 Native American people in fiscal year 2017. The program is funded through January, but no new federal money will be designated if the government closing goes beyond that, according to a memo from the department. State and tribal agencies will have to decide if they can fill in the gap. Chairman Joseph Rupnick of the Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation, headquartered in northeast Kansas, said he feared the impact that this would have on his members.“Those stores will be depleted,” Mr. Rupnick said of the tribe’s food distribution center. “When they’re going through a shutdown, they’re thinking: ‘I need five billion for a wall. I need dollars for this or that.’ The bottom line is it always impacts the neediest people in the country.”The shutdown has further eroded many Native Americans’ confidence in the federal government, which they said has never lived up to lofty promises made in long-ago treaties. “I believe very strongly that it adversely affects a population that is already adversely affected by the United States government,” said Harry Barnes, a former chairman of Montana’s 17,000-member Blackfeet Nation.An earlier version of this article, using information from an Interior Department report from January 2018, gave outdated figures for the number of employees set to be furloughed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in a shutdown. It is 2,295 of 4,057, not 2,662 of 4,490. An earlier version also stated that the shutdown had curtailed a Department of Agriculture food program. The program will be funded through January, but will be curtailed if the shutdown continues beyond that date.Mitch Smith reported from Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., and Julie Turkewitz from Denver.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Britain's ruling Conservative Party cannot let itself be defined solely by Brexit, Prime Minister Theresa May's de facto deputy said on Sunday, as polling showed failure to leave the European Union on schedule has badly damaged its support.May's authority has been shattered by her three-time failure to get an exit deal approved by parliament and a pledge to quit once Brexit is delivered, driving speculation about her successor and a possible national election.The once-prized stability of British politics has disappeared, threatening to break apart both the Conservatives and their main opponents Labour, and leaving the world's fifth-largest economy facing an uncertain future.Without any consensus in parliament, reflective of a deeply divided population, all outcomes remain possible in the coming weeks and months: leaving the EU with a deal, a disorderly exit without a deal, or another vote on whether to leave at all. "We mustn't define ourselves as the Brexit party," said David Lidington, cabinet office minister and effectively May's second in command."We've got to deliver the outcome of the referendum ... but, the Conservative Party has got to remain a broad church, a national party, and it's got to be talking about things that matter to people in their everyday lives: housing, health service, living standards." May, 62, took power in the aftermath of Britain's surprise 2016 vote to leave the EU and has seen her government paralyzed by divisions over Brexit and unable to enact an ambitious reform agenda to tackle social injustice. An Opinium poll published in the Observer newspaper showed the Conservatives at 29 percent, down 6 points from March 28 and 7 points behind Labour.An analysis of polls since the original intended March 29 exit day, published in the Sunday Telegraph, showed the Conservatives would lose 59 parliamentary seats if an election were held. "Much of this drop reflects disappointment among Leave voters - around a half of whom would prefer 'no deal' - at the government's failure to deliver Brexit," polling expert John Curtice wrote in the Sunday TelegraphThe analysis showed Corbyn's Labour Party would win the most seats but still fall short of an outright majority in the 650-seat parliament, with Scottish nationalists and the small centrist Liberal Democrats party also picking up seats. "KICKED THE CAN"Lidington told the BBC compromise talks with Labour would continue, with both sides seeking agreement over a plan for Brexit that could win parliament's approval.He warned the talks could not be allowed to drag out for months, but showed little indication the government may drop its requirement that future EU ties cannot involve a customs union.With parliament on an 11-day break until April 23, Britons are wondering what happens next. Steve Murrells, chief executive of retailer Co-op group, told the BBC the government had "kicked the can down the road" on Brexit, but that his firm would continue to plan for the worst-case scenario of leaving without a deal.Despite being handed an extension of EU membership until Oct. 31, May is hoping to pass a withdrawal agreement and lead Britain out of the bloc before May 23 to avoid taking part in elections for the European Parliament.Eurosceptic Iain Duncan Smith, a former Conservative Party leader, said May should be ready to quit in June. He described the delay to Brexit as "political death" and urged May to avoid taking part in the European elections.AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]On his now-frequent tours of early presidential primary states, Mayor Bill de Blasio has taken to invoking a less-familiar aspect of his tenure: a nearly $1 billion plan to address mental illness in New York City.Mr. de Blasio’s wife, Chirlane McCray, has done the same, presenting the effort as a national model to audiences from Atlanta to Seattle.The mental health initiative, known as ThriveNYC, is crucial to Ms. McCray’s potential as a future political candidate, and has become increasingly important to Mr. de Blasio as he toys with a possible 2020 presidential bid. He now regularly names Thrive as one of his administration’s core achievements.“It’s revolutionary,” Mr. de Blasio told CNN’s Symone Sanders during a recent forum at Harvard University.But back home, the effort, now in its fourth year, has sputtered. The plan, which includes dozens of discrete programs across 15 city agencies, has undergone two leadership changes in the last year; the most recent saw a top official from the Police Department, Susan Herman, taking charge last month.Ms. McCray, who created and oversees ThriveNYC, faced tough questions on its performance and spending during a packed special hearing of the City Council on Tuesday. The city comptroller is also investigating.During the hearing, Ms. McCray distanced herself from the operations of the program, and left it to Ms. Herman and a budget official to answer many of the more specific questions.“Susan Herman does the day-to-day management and makes the decisions,” Ms. McCray said when asked about her role, adding that her role was to amplify ThriveNYC’s “message to the public.”Pressed on how much of the program’s budget went to the seriously mentally ill, Ms. McCray responded by questioning how that category is defined. Roughly 10 percent of the Thrive budget, more than $30 million in the current fiscal year, goes to address serious mental illness, according to City Hall. (Separately, the Health Department spends nearly 10 times as much on the seriously mentally ill.)Ms. Herman stressed more than once during the hearing that Thrive was “not a new mental health system.” That message contrasted one repeated by Mr. de Blasio, including during a radio interview on Friday. “Before the Thrive initiative,” he said, “there was not even a pretense of a mental health system in the city.”For all the talk, the initiative has been less sweeping than envisioned: A third of the budget has not been spent, according to an analysis of city data by The New York Times. Repeatedly presented by City Hall as a four-year $850 million plan, city officials now say $560 million will have been spent in that time.The biggest challenge for Mr. de Blasio and Ms. McCray has been to identify concrete results. A spreadsheet of nearly 500 data points tracked by City Hall included almost none related to patient outcomes.City officials, for example, could not say how many people have been connected to treatment after calling the city’s new mental health hotline, because fewer than 10 percent agree to a follow-up.“It is a hard thing to measure, because it’s never existed before,” Ms. McCray said in an interview at Gracie Mansion last month. “So, what are the right measures?”At least one available barometer hinted at the challenges that the city still faces in dealing with mental illness: More New Yorkers dialed 911 to report a person in the midst of a mental health crisis last year — 179,000 calls — than at any point in more than a decade.Public health officials credit the plan for drawing attention to mental health, often too easily ignored by political leaders. Ms. McCray, for example, seldom talks about Thrive without imploring audience to repeat the number of its mental health hotline, 1-888-NYC-WELL.At the same time, some initiatives failed to get started, while others placed unrealistic demands on already strained mental health services.“Are we there yet? No,” Dr. Gary Belkin, a top health official and the chief of policy and strategy for Thrive, said of using the hotline to connect people to care effectively. “But we’ve built the structure that can get us there.”Much of the development of Thrive was personal, born of Mr. de Blasio’s and Ms. McCray’s own difficulties navigating the mental health system on behalf of their daughter, Chiara, who struggled with depression and drugs during high school and college.“It was not as obvious what I, as first lady, would take on; I wanted to take on something big,” Ms. McCray said in the interview. That first year, she began talking with Dr. Belkin. She took a mental health first aid course in October 2014.Over the next four years, Ms. McCray would transform herself into a mental health evangelist.“What do they always tell you when you’re in high school or in college? You should choose to work on something that you would do without pay,” she said. “And guess what — I finally found it.” (She receives no pay for her city work.)Not all of the programs in her plan were new. The city invested heavily on mental health before the de Blasio administration: For example, the Health Department spent $243 million in the 2014 fiscal year on mental health contracts. With Thrive, spending rose to $346 million in fiscal year 2018, according to an analysis by the City Council.Besides the ramped-up spending, a big part of Thrive has been Ms. McCray’s advocacy. She has traveled the city urging New Yorkers, particularly in black and Hispanic communities, to open up and to erase the stigma around mental health. She occasionally speaks of her own experience with therapy, and in the interview, she spoke obliquely of her brief return to treatment last year. “Something happened that triggered the need for me to go,” she said without elaborating. “I felt like I was not able to function.”But City Hall is still struggling to quantify the payoff from her efforts. Dr. Belkin said that while suicide rates are not the best measure, the Health Department has been looking at trends in suicide attempts, based on emergency room visits. Officials are also collecting survey data. (According to data provided by the city, surveys of about 10,000 callers to NYC-WELL since late 2016 found about 60 percent felt better after calling the number.)One indicator of the need for services: The phones at NYC-WELL ring constantly, 180,000 times in 2018, according to city data. (Some are repeat callers, with a few who call as many as 200 times a day.)The call center, operated under city contract, took over the old Lower Manhattan offices of a city suicide hotline known as LifeNet, a service with calls that peaked at 105,000 in 2014. During a recent visit, a screen played YouTube videos of adorable animals, to help soothe staff members who work in sound-dampened cubicles. The service also includes text and web chat.People can receive confidential crisis counseling and referrals. But the interaction is not therapy, cautioned Dr. Anitha Iyer, who helps oversee the call center. “That’s a misconception that people often have,” she said.Few of those who dial the number agree to a follow-up call, making it hard to gauge its effectiveness. So far, almost all of the information on follow-up care comes from the limited cases in which a social worker and psychiatrist have been sent to visit the person.And even some experienced in mental health services have been surprised at what the service does not offer.A retired psychiatric social worker dialed NYC-WELL last year hoping for a nonpolice response for his 37-year-old son, who had been making threats and had a history of manic episodes. The father asked for a psychiatrist and a social worker to be sent to the home.He was told a team like that could not come for at least a day, maybe two; for immediate help, call 911.“They sent a whole army of police,” said the father, who asked to be referred to only by his first name, Ralph, to protect his son’s privacy. Initially, his son refused to cooperate. “That escalated the situation,” he said. The officers eventually brought him to Elmhurst Hospital, nearby.Mental health advocates have been pressing the city to overhaul how emergency personnel respond to situations involving people experiencing the effects of severe mental health issues. But the police are still often the only ones available to respond quickly to calls, even to the mental health line.The Thrive program budgeted millions to create diversion centers, a place other than jail for officers to bring those experiencing a mental health crisis.But problems with the city’s initial proposals delayed the process, those involved said. Two locations have been selected, in East Harlem and the Bronx, but neither has opened yet. More than $15 million has been budgeted over the last three years for the effort; none has been spent.“They have good ideas, but the implementation is what they stumble on,” said Steve Coe, the chief executive of Community Access, which provides housing and other services to the mentally ill.Thrive’s primary focus is on the other end of the spectrum: New Yorkers who have less serious and possibly undiagnosed mental health problems, a population that according to City Hall encompasses 1.7 million city residents.To serve that population, the city is spending $12 million a year on the NYC-WELL hotline — not including nearly $11 million spent on advertising in 2017, mostly to promote the service.Another prominent element of Thrive is an expansion of mental health first aid training. Health Department employees now conduct the eight-hour classes daily at churches, schools and community centers.Ms. McCray implores those she meets to take the course, which includes discussions and role playing. So far, she has not been able to get the mayor to take it. (“He’s kind of busy,” she said.)But the vast majority of city spending on the program goes to more than 40 other endeavors, such as a crime victim advocate program; social and emotional learning in public schools; and a corps of young behavioral health clinicians paid by the city to work at nonprofits for three years.Even as the city has poured money into mental health programs and training, nonprofit directors said they still struggle with providing treatment, citing inadequate Medicaid reimbursement rates and even less generous reimbursements from commercial insurers. Some have closed their doors; others have chosen to stop providing mental health services.David Woodlock, president of the Institute for Community Living and a former top state health official, praised Ms. McCray for her courage in taking on mental health issues. But he bemoaned the inadequacy of state funding, and called the city’s contracting process broken.“People are being asked to do more in this system that is not built for expansion,” he said.Helping the seriously mentally ill remains a challenge, especially in a crisis. Those moments often involve the police, and have led to confrontations where officers have been injured, and the person the officers came to help getting physically hurt or killed.During one such episode in 2012, a man whose family members called 911 to try to help him, attacked one of the responding officers, stabbing him in the neck and face.The man, Benedy Abreu, 31, served five years in prison and is now in a program funded through Thrive to help those with serious mental illness and a criminal past. He receives regular visits from a psychiatrist and a peer counselor.“Everyone in life goes through something,” said Stacey Hamilton, 52, a peer specialist and social worker, reassuring Mr. Abreu during a recent visit that he, too, could become a peer counselor and recalling her own history of mental illness and incarceration.Later, she wondered aloud whether her work with men like Mr. Abreu would be enough. “If this is the highest level of care,” she asked, “how many success stories are there really?”In an earlier version of this article, the location of a community class was misidentified in a photo caption. It took place at the Metropolitan College of New York, not at Manhattan College.Follow J. David Goodman on Twitter: @jdavidgoodmanAdvertisementSupported byEntrepreneurshipBy Janet MorrisseyBusinesses can deliver everything on demand, from dinner to dry cleaning. Some will even show up at your door to give you cupcakes or walk your dog. Now, entrepreneurs are exploring a growing niche: health care.Start-ups are offering access to doctors, prescription drugs and wellness programs as fast and easy as hailing an Uber driver. Experts say this is the early stages of a movement that could disrupt the health services industry, which critics have long contended suffers from soaring costs and reduced access to care. Seven in 10 Americans in a recent Gallup poll said they believed health care was “in a state of crisis” or had “major problems.”“Health care delivery is so broken that we need to explore new channels — new conduits — and this represents one of them,” said Dr. Eric Topol, a cardiologist and the author of “The Patient Will See You Now.”The on-demand economy, which offers consumers immediate access to goods and services, surged 58 percent in 2017 from the previous year to an estimated $75.7 billion, according to a study by Rockbridge Associates, a market research firm.As the industry swells, dozens of health and wellness companies are tapping the trend.Heal, DispatchHealth, MedZed, Dose Healthcare and Pager will send a doctor or a nurse practitioner to a person’s home or workplace to treat nonemergency problems like strep throat or a sprained ankle. The I.V. Doc offers intravenous treatments for conditions like jet lag, hangovers and food poisoning. And Capsule will deliver prescriptions to a person’s doorstep.“People want convenience,” said Josh York, founder of GymGuyz, a “gym on wheels” that sends a trainer and fitness equipment to customers’ homes. “You could get your pizza delivered but you couldn’t get your workout delivered, and I thought, ‘This is where the future is going.’”GymGuyz and other start-ups, like the I.V. Doc, were bootstrapped by the founders’ friends and family. But some — especially on-demand medical companies, like Heal and DispatchHealth — needed substantial cash to hire doctors, lease vehicles and bring in administrative staff to handle insurance claims.Cue the investors, many of whom are hunting for the next billion-dollar opportunity.Samir M. Patel, a principal and co-founder of IRA Capital, was so impressed with Heal after using it for at-home visits and an annual physical in his office that he became an investor.“To us, this feels like we’re investing in Uber in 2010,” Mr. Patel said. “This is going to revolutionize and change the entire health care industry.”Uber, a pioneer in the on-demand economy, could be worth as much as $120 billion as it prepares for an initial public offering this year.Heal has raised $70 million from such investors as the former Qualcomm executive chairman Paul Jacobs, Tull Investment Group and the singer Lionel Richie, while DispatchHealth has raised $36 million from such investors as Questa Capital and Alta Partners.But the potential to be the next “unicorn” — a start-up valued at $1 billion or more — has created a crowded field.The popularity of the I.V. Doc prompted a flurry of smaller companies, like IVDrips, Drip Hydration and the Hangover Club/NutriDrip, to offer similar services — sometimes at cheaper prices. To fend off competition, the I.V. Doc recently expanded to offer injectable drugs, like Botox and Restylane, as well as postoperative care for plastic surgery.Large tech companies are seeking a bigger share of the more than $3 trillion spent annually on health care in the United States. Amazon, which has been making an aggressive push into health care, announced last year that it would buy PillPack, an online service that organizes and delivers prescription medications. Apple and Alphabet, Google’s parent company, have also made significant acquisitions as they accelerate their efforts on new technologies for doctors, patients and consumers.“Health care is a $3.5 trillion industry — who wouldn’t want a piece of that?” said Jeff Becker, a senior analyst and health care IT expert at Forrester.But start-ups are facing challenges on their path to financial viability. Because mobility brings extra liability, one of the biggest roadblocks is insurance for themselves. Problems can crop up on the road, like traffic accidents, or in a customer’s home, like an equipment malfunction. Or perhaps a doctor, lacking sufficient equipment, makes an incorrect diagnosis. These headaches can make it difficult for start-ups to find proper protection.Dr. Adam Nadelson, the founder of the I.V. Doc, approached five insurers in 2013 before finally finding one to sign on.“It was a mixture of them not understanding what we were doing and then some gave us a price that was just outrageous,” he said.Mr. York of GymGuyz had more than 30 meetings over six months to get an insurer before starting his company in 2008.“It was very very hard; I had to really paint the vision and meet with a lot of people because the business was so different,” Mr. York said. “The doors were shut on me so hard that my nose was hurting.”Insurance not only protects the company, business owners say, it also covers employees, who take a risk entering a private residence.“We have walked into a house and somebody had a gun or walked into a yard where there’s a pit bull,” said Dr. Mark Prather, chief executive and co-founder of DispatchHealth. Both DispatchHealth and Heal always send two people to house calls for safety and efficiency.Getting their customers’ health care insurers on board is equally critical, and providers are slowly coming around.Owners who offer medical care contend that their business model will save insurers money because people will seek medical attention sooner if it’s fast, easy and affordable and does not require monthlong waits for an appointment or long waits in a doctor’s office. And they say early detection and treatment could prevent a problem from morphing into a debilitating illness that later requires an emergency room visit or hospitalization. Visits to the E.R. can cost $1,000 to $2,500, Dr. Prather said.Entrepreneurs point out another benefit: Their doctors and nurses can identify health triggers in a patient’s home.A Los Angeles man who had called for a Heal doctor complained of migraine headaches, recalled Nick Desai, a co-founder of Heal. The man had been to eight doctors, had three M.R.I. scans and had tried multiple medications. When the Heal doctor arrived, he noticed black mold.“So the patient hired a cleaning person to clean the black mold — and his migraine headaches were gone,” Mr. Desai said.Insurers are beginning to add on-demand services to their plans and even forming managed care partnerships with start-ups to visit people at home with chronic conditions, like hypertension and diabetes. Anthem, Health Net, Blue Shield, Aetna, CareFirst, United Healthcare, Cigna and Medicare are among the insurers that cover Heal visits in many of their P.P.O. plans, Mr. Desai said.As their businesses expand, owners must navigate complex health care regulations, which can vary from state to state.“Every state acts as their own country, with their own kooky laws, and understanding those rules and regulations costs an obscene amount of money in legal fees to understand how to operate one’s business,” Dr. Nadelson said.Before Amazon bought PillPack, it tried to enter the world of prescription drugs with a deal to acquire a stake in Drugstore.com. But it ran into regulatory challenges, and the effort was derailed. Amazon found a solution in PillPack, which has pharmacy licenses in 50 states and relationships with the major pharmacy benefit managers and insurers.Despite the barriers, experts believe on-demand health services are here to stay.“This has the potential to be life-altering,” said Dr. Griffin Myers, a co-founder and the chief medical officer at Oak Street Health, a network of primary care practices for people on Medicare.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer SteinhauerWASHINGTON — Corey Foster spent her Army career caring for wounded troops, both as a flight medic in the Iraq war and at Walter Reed hospital, so she looked forward to one of the most celebrated benefits of military service — health care for life from the Department of Veterans Affairs. Then she walked through the door at a V.A. medical center in Temple, Tex.“You felt like you were a piece of meat,” said Ms. Foster, 34, who retired as a sergeant. “Standing in line at the registration desk, I was getting comments from the male patients behind me, looking me up and down. It was a major source of discomfort.”The treatment was the same at the Veterans Affairs medical center in Murfreesboro, Tenn., where Ms. Foster moved after living in Texas. At that point she gave up, and opted for her husband’s insurance outside the department. “They need to make the facilities not feel like an old soldier’s home,” Ms. Foster said.[Sign up for the weekly At War newsletter to receive stories about duty, conflict and consequence.]An entrenched, sexist culture at many veterans hospitals is driving away female veterans and lags far behind the gains women have made in the military in recent years, veterans and lawmakers of both parties say. Although the Department of Veterans Affairs has scrambled to adjust to the rising population of female veterans and has made progress — including hiring more women’s health care providers, fixing basic privacy problems in the exam rooms and expanding service to women in rural areas — sexual harassment at department facilities remains a major problem.Women say it is galling that such a demeaning atmosphere persists, especially for the roughly 30 percent of female veterans who have reported being harassed or assaulted while serving in the military. That number includes Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona, who spoke at a congressional hearing last week about being raped by a superior officer while serving in the Air Force.“Changing the culture has been an ongoing, overarching goal,” said Dr. Patricia Hayes, the chief consultant for Women’s Health Services at the veterans agency. “We want women veterans to feel respected and safe and secure.”At a recent hearing with veterans agency officials on Capitol Hill, Representative John Carter, Republican of Texas, described the treatment of female constituents trying to obtain V.A. health care. “It’s like a construction site,” he said.Mr. Carter cited the same medical center in Texas that Ms. Foster had used — and noted that the Women’s Trauma Recovery Center within it was moved last year to a female-only facility in Waco so that women, who said they feared for their safety, could receive treatment without facing harassment.Representative Will Hurd, Republican of Texas, was visibly frustrated as he described women abandoning the center in his district because of harassment. “This is the biggest concern I hear from female veterans,’’ he said.While the number of women using veteran health services has tripled since 2000 — to about 500,000 from 159,810 — they still make up only 8 percent of all users of health care at the V.A. Officials expect that the number will increase. Two million women are in the American veteran population, or about 10 percent, and yet they make up 16 percent of the active-duty military force.“I believe that we still have a tsunami wave of women vets coming in,” said Dr. Hayes, of Veterans Affairs.For now, many female veterans say they are made to feel as if they do not belong at the V.A., as they describe front-desk employees asking for a husband’s Social Security number when they check in or being passed over for items like complimentary coffee, which employees say are “for vets.”“It’s hard to walk into a place and feel like everyone is looking at you wondering why you are there,” said Kristen Rouse, 45, founding director of the NYC Veterans Alliance, who described a sense of loss every time she glanced at the department’s motto affixed to her center in New York City: “To care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his widow, and his orphan.” Her organization supports changing the motto.“Over the 24 years I have served my country, I have never been any of those,” said Ms. Rouse, who remains a reservist in the Army. “And I never will be.” (That portion of the motto, coined by President Lincoln, is now the subject of legislation.)Some centers, like the one in Washington, have removed benches from entryways so that men no longer have a place to linger and badger women, or have created separate facilities, like the one in Texas. Every center now has at least two providers focused on women’s health and nearly 6,000 providers have been trained in the practice; about 98 percent of them are women.While the V.A. is still trying to address the needs of pregnant veterans — the centers do not provide full obstetrics care on site — many of the centers across the country now have baby showers around Mother’s Day, offering diapers and other baby supplies.Yet the culture remains an impediment for many.Brandy Baxter, who served as a senior airman in the Air Force, loves the care she receives at the women’s health clinic through the Veterans Affairs center in Dallas. But she hates the elevator ride to get there.“The male vets give me the once over with their eyes,” she said. “I look them right in the eye, just to tell them, ‘I’m checking your height, your weight, your skin color — just in case I need to report you.’ ”This year, the House Veterans Affairs Committee will establish a task force to address women’s health care, and harassment issues are expected to be front and center. “This is about the physical transformation of our facilities,” said Representative Mark Takano, Democrat of California and the new chairman of the committee.A model for what women’s health care can be is on display at the Jesse Brown V.A. Medical Center in Chicago, where the vast majority of doctors and staff members are women. The five exam rooms and waiting area are only for women, and beyond offering basic health care, the center offers women a number of programs like a golf team, a weight loss group and art therapy.“I think women veterans really want programming that speaks to their entire identity,” said Jenny Sitzer, the coordinator for women at the center.Staff members wear badges that read, “My name is not ‘Hey baby,’” and banners all over the campus feature the faces of female veterans describing the pain of being harassed on their way through the broader V.A.Lori Brown, 58, is grateful for all these services, but most of all for the ability to walk into the medical center without facing harassment, and to have only women for her care. “I can allow myself to be who I am in front of the doctor or nurse and not be intimidated by men,” said Ms. Brown, who was an Army sergeant.Many other challenges face the V.A., like a shortage of providers for specialty services. Some women say they still struggle to get all of their birth control needs fulfilled at some facilities, and complex laws governing certain fertility treatments remain another area of complaint.Many women do not use the medical facilities because they lack child care, which the department is largely not legally able to provide. Another issue is reaching homeless female veterans, a serious problem that also affects the male population.Women also have mental health care needs — over 40 percent of female veterans who use the V.A. are diagnosed with at least one mental health condition, compared with about 25 percent of men.AdvertisementSupported byBy Megan SpeciaIreland this week began offering legalized abortion services, a historic shift in a country that for decades had some of the most restrictive abortion laws in Europe.In a referendum last year, voters repealed a clause in Ireland’s Constitution that effectively outlawed abortion, and legislation passed at the end of 2018 allowed for unrestricted terminations of pregnancies up to 12 weeks.The legalization was immediately met by small-scale protests, with a demonstration at a clinic in Galway gaining national attention on Thursday after a handful of anti-abortion activists gathered outside the entrance with signs that read, “Real doctors don’t terminate their patients,” and “Say no to abortion in Galway.”The protests set off calls for additional legislation to protect those seeking abortions and for the physicians providing them, including establishing exclusion zones that would restrict how close protesters could be to places providing abortions.Mairead Enright, a senior lecturer in law at Birmingham University in Britain and a member of the advocacy group Lawyers for Choice, said legislation was needed to ensure that women and doctors did not feel intimidated.“It’s about generally sending a message about access, sending a message that it’s no longer permissible to stigmatize and intimidate and mislead and obstruct women who are accessing a legal service,” she said.Simon Harris, Ireland’s health minister, pledged this week to work to designate exclusion zones around clinics providing abortion services, with a plan to introduce a bill in the coming weeks, according to the Irish Independent.Anti-abortion activists denounced his call for exclusion zones, saying they could limit free speech.“Abortion providers are going to be protested & picketed in Ireland, it happens in other democracies it will happen here & it will intensify. It is a democratic right,” Declan Ganley, an Irish businessman and prominent anti-abortion campaigner, wrote on Twitter.Some Irish men and women have begun to organize on social media in solidarity with those seeking abortions, vowing to accompany anyone in need of support to a clinic.Using the hashtag #SiulLiom, “walk with me” in the Irish language, dozens have pledged their support.Mr. Harris, the health minister, said that 200 physicians have signed up to provide abortion services and more would be added next week. However, only some are willing to be publicly listed on the national health service’s “My Options” website, the main referral pathway for women seeking an abortion.Four counties in Ireland have no physicians listed on the official government website, raising concerns about access, abortion rights activists say.“Many women, particularly in rural Ireland will have to travel significant distances,” Ms. Enright said. “We hope that we are going to be able to build on this initial provision.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriOn Thursday, operators of a health care center in Phoenix where an incapacitated woman was raped and gave birth last year announced that they would close it down.But on Friday, the operator, Hacienda HealthCare, backtracked. It said it now planned to stay open, under increased state oversight, after regulators balked, saying in a letter that they were concerned about the “health and safety” impacts of moving the center’s patients elsewhere if it was shuttered.Hacienda said in a letter to state regulators that it would “provide the safest possible care for our clients and chart a path forward that meets all of our interests.” The operator’s board also voted in favor of being regulated by the Arizona Department of Health Services.“This is good news and the best immediate outcome as it means Hacienda patients and families would be allowed to stay in the home they’ve known for years while ensuring new and enhanced protections and oversight are put in place,” Patrick Ptak, a spokesman for Doug Ducey, the Republican governor of Arizona, said in a statement Friday. “Due to the medically fragile condition of this community, keeping patients where they reside was always our preferred choice and the safest option for patients.”A spokesman for the company said Thursday that 37 patients would be affected if the facility were closed.The exchange is the latest twist in a case that has spurred widespread scrutiny over how people with disabilities like those at Hacienda are cared for. A criminal investigation began last month after news emerged that a woman at Hacienda who cannot talk or walk unexpectedly gave birth to a boy in December. (The baby is said to be doing well and is in the custody of the woman’s family.)The family of the woman could not immediately be reached for comment Friday.After Friday’s vote by its board, Hacienda and the state health department are expected to come to a formal agreement that would keep the center open under the department’s oversight.The state health department said the agreement would require Hacienda to contract with a third-party consultant to oversee its operations, to have an on-site monitor to make sure changes are put into place, to have an independent team review the level of care there and to develop a long-term plan for the Phoenix site.Hacienda said in a statement Friday that it had already installed dozens of new security cameras at the nursing center, retained off-duty police officers for security and increased training for the staff.The health department said it “will continue to work directly with Hacienda to ensure the residents are cared for in a safe and therapeutic environment.”In January, a former nurse at the Hacienda center assigned to treat the woman was charged with having sexually assaulted her. The nurse, Nathan D. Sutherland, 36, pleaded not guilty on Tuesday to that charge and to a count of child abuse. A DNA sample taken from Mr. Sutherland was eventually found to match that of the baby, the police said.Governor Ducey has raised the possibility of deploying the state attorney general’s office in a wide-ranging investigation into the company. He has also requested a broader investigation into Hacienda’s management, with a focus on possible financial fraud and “violations of Arizona’s civil rights act” in its company culture.The company itself has hired a former top prosecutor in Maricopa County, where Phoenix is located, to conduct its own investigation of the sexual assault allegations. Hacienda HealthCare’s chief executive resigned in January.Matt Stevens contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byFor those who want to regulate women’s bodies, ignorance has been no obstacle.By Lauren KelleyMs. Kelley is a member of the editorial board.A few recent news stories have served as reminders that an awful lot of people lack even a basic understanding of the female body. And some of those people get to make and shape our laws.There was the lawyer in Alabama who tried to justify an extreme anti-abortion bill that he helped draft by arguing that after a man and a woman have sex, “you can take her straight into a clinic and determine an egg and sperm came together.”That’s not medically possible. Even the most sensitive pregnancy test won’t come back positive until an embryo is implanted in the uterus, which typically happens a week or more after fertilization. So the idea that any woman would be able to get an abortion within two weeks of fertilization — the cutoff under the Alabama bill — is preposterous.Maybe not everyone learns the mechanics of early pregnancy in ninth-grade biology class. But it’s reasonable to expect that someone trying to legislate what pregnant people can do with their bodies would have a better grasp on the matter. (He might also want to consider the logistics of sending millions of women for in-clinic pregnancy tests immediately after they have sex. But that’s a story for another day.)Then there was the member of Maine’s House of Representatives who said that giving incarcerated women an adequate supply of menstrual products would make prisons akin to “country clubs.”Beyond the questions this raises about what he thinks goes on at country clubs, it’s disturbing that an adult male doesn’t seem to know what tampons and pads do. As so many of us are intimately aware, these products are not luxury items, but rather an absolute necessity for anyone who’s menstruating.The bad news for the rest of us is that these guys are hardly alone in trying to legislate aspects of human bodies that they do not understand.There was the lawmaker in Idaho who asked at a legislative hearing whether a woman could get a gynecological exam by swallowing a tiny camera. (No more than a dentist can do her job by looking at your feet.)And the Texas state representative who seemed to think that abortion providers cut into women’s bodies. (That’s a cesarean section.)And the other Texas lawmaker who said that while getting a rape kit exam, “the woman can get cleaned out” to end her pregnancy. (That’s not what rape kits are for.)And, of course, this infamous observation from Todd Akin, then a Missouri congressman: “If it’s a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down.” (Where even to begin?)And last month President Trump mused about Central American migrants heading to the United States: “Mothers who love their daughters give them massive amounts of birth control pills, because they know their daughters are going to be raped.” (That is ... not how birth control works.)This is without even getting into politicians’ misguided notions about comprehensive sex education, their insistence that the morning-after pill and intrauterine devices cause abortions and their curious views about birth control in general. (“Many of the Christian faith have said, well, that’s O.K., contraception is O.K. It’s not O.K,” said Rick Santorum, the former Republican senator from Pennsylvania, in 2011. “It’s a license to do things in a sexual realm that is counter to how things are supposed to be.”)As members of the anti-abortion movement have sought increasingly extreme restrictions on the procedure — and have rolled back access to contraception and other health services — their justifications have become further removed from science and fact. It would be naïve to think that giving every elected official a copy of “Our Bodies, Ourselves” would change that.But facts do still matter. And it sure wouldn’t hurt for more people in power to learn about the bodies they’re trying to regulate.Nor would it hurt for supporters of reproductive freedom to remember they’re fighting a war on multiple fronts — and ignorance about women’s bodies is one of them.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jesse McKinley[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — After a measles outbreak in Brooklyn and Rockland County and amid growing concerns about the anti-vaccine movement, a pair of state legislators are proposing allowing minors to receive vaccinations without permission from their parents.The bill would allow any child 14 years or older to be vaccinated and given booster shots for a range of diseases including mumps, diphtheria, whooping cough, tetanus, influenza, hepatitis B and measles, which seemed to be the primary reason for alarm after the recent outbreaks.“We are on the verge of a public health crisis,” said one of the bill’s sponsors, Assemblywoman Patricia Fahy, a Democrat from Albany, citing lower-than-recommended inoculation rates in some communities, spurred by unconfirmed suspicions about vaccines causing autism. “We’ve become complacent over the last couple of decades.”[Your questions on measles and its vaccine, answered.]That sentiment was amplified recently by the World Health Organization, which listed “vaccine hesitancy” as one of the Top 10 global threats. In Rockland County, officials are reporting 145 confirmed cases of measles, with the vast majority of those afflicted aged 18 and under. Of those, four out of five have received no vaccinations for measles, mumps and rubella.City health officials have also reported more than 100 cases of measles in Brooklyn, and a single case in Queens as well. As in Rockland County, most of those cases involved members of the Orthodox Jewish communities where vaccination rates typically lag well behind the norm.[One Student Was Not Vaccinated Against Measles. 21 Others Got Sick.]If passed and signed into law, the bill would make New York part of a group of states — ranging from liberal Oregon to conservative South Carolina — that allow minors to ask for vaccinations without parental approval, though some states also require minors to be evaluated to determine if they are mature enough to make such a decision. The New York bill would not require such an evaluation.Even more states, including New York, allow minors to seek out health care services on issues like substance abuse, mental health issues or reproductive health services.The introduction of the bill came just days after dramatic Congressional testimony from an Ohio teenager, Ethan Lindenberger, who defied his mother’s wishes and got vaccinated after he became convinced that she had fallen prey to online conspiracy theories about the dangers of vaccines. Multiple studies have debunked such theories, including a major European report issued last week, which showed that the measles, mumps and rubella vaccination does not increase the risk for autism.On Monday, the New York chapters of the American Academy of Pediatrics came out in favor of the bill, saying it comported with a longstanding idea known as the “mature minor” exception to parental consent as well as a more recent realization that young people are better at recognizing false online reports.“Young people are often more conscious about the misinformation on the internet and can in many cases disagree with parents who have bought into unfounded and dangerous anti-immunization diatribes and pseudoscience,” said a memo from the organization in support of the bill. “These young people have a right to protect themselves.”Highly contagious, measles can contribute to a range of serious health complications, particularly in children, including pneumonia and swelling of the brain. It can also be fatal in rare cases. The measles vaccine came into use in the 1960s and the disease was declared eliminated in the United States in 2000.Most states allow religious exemptions to vaccination requirements, but some states have pushed back on such exemptions, including California, which barred them in 2015 after a measles outbreak and eroding rates of vaccination. Democratic lawmakers in Albany have also introduced a bill to eliminate religious exemptions, though it is not clear whether it will receive a vote.Nationwide, vaccination rates for measles, mumps and rubella are still above 90 percent, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, though the numbers are down incrementally from two decades ago. But as evidenced in Rockland County, some communities are practically uninoculated.State Senator Liz Krueger, a Manhattan Democrat who is sponsoring the bill in Albany’s upper chamber, said that the bill would address not only minors put at risk by their parents’ prejudices against vaccines but also those without engaged adults in their lives.“You’re talking about a pretty heavy level of maturity if you’re saying, ‘I want to get vaccinated even though I can’t get any adults in my family to understand why this is important,’” she said.Ms. Fahy said she was “very sensitive to the rights of parents” to oversee their children’s health care but felt that the broader public health concerns were overwhelming.“It’s not just the individual who is at risk when they are not immunized,” she said. “You are putting other people at risk.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagThe federal government received more than 4,500 complaints in four years about the sexual abuse of immigrant children who were being held at government-funded detention facilities, including an increase in complaints while the Trump administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the border was in place, the Justice Department revealed this week.The records, which involve children who had entered the country alone or had been separated from their parents, detailed allegations that adult staff members had harassed and assaulted children, including fondling and kissing minors, watching them as they showered, and raping them. They also included cases of suspected abuse of children by other minors.From October 2014 to July 2018, the Office of Refugee Resettlement, a part of the Health and Human Services Department that cares for so-called unaccompanied minors, received a total of 4,556 allegations of sexual abuse or sexual harassment, 1,303 of which were referred to the Justice Department. Of those 1,303 cases deemed the most serious, 178 were accusations that adult staff members had sexually assaulted immigrant children, while the rest were allegations of minors assaulting other minors, the report said.“The safety of minors is our top concern when administering the UAC program,” Jonathan H. Hayes, the acting director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement, said in a statement, using an abbreviation for unaccompanied children. “None of the allegations involved O.R.R. federal staff. These allegations were all fully investigated and remedial action was taken where appropriate.”[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The records do not detail the outcome of every complaint, but they indicate that some accusations were determined to be unfounded or lacking enough evidence to prosecute. In one case, a staff member at a Chicago detention facility was accused in April 2015 of fondling and kissing a child and was later charged with a crime. The report did not state whether that person had been found guilty.The documents, first reported by Axios, were made public by Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, the night before a House Judiciary Committee hearing on Tuesday about the Trump administration’s policy of family separations at the southern border. That policy, which was put in place last spring, resulted in more than 2,700 children being separated from their parents under President Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting anyone caught crossing the border illegally, including those with families seeking asylum on humanitarian grounds.For most of the four years covered by the report, the number of allegations made to the Office of Refugee Resettlement stayed about the same from month to month. But the number of complaints rose after the Trump administration enacted its separation policy. From March 2018 to July 2018, the agency received 859 complaints, the largest number of reports during any five-month span in the previous four years. Of those, 342 allegations were referred to the Justice Department, the report showed.During the hearing on Tuesday, a discussion of the records sparked a heated exchange between Mr. Deutch and Cmdr. Jonathan White of the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, who last year repeatedly warned a top official in Health and Human Services that the family separation policy could permanently traumatize young children.As Mr. Deutch read some of the report, Commander White interjected, “That is false!”He later apologized, claiming that a “vast majority of allegations proved to be unfounded.” He said he was unaware of any accusations against staff members that were found to have merit.AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin Weiser[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]New York City has agreed to pay $3.3 million to settle a lawsuit on behalf of the estate of Kalief Browder, the young Bronx man whose detention on Rikers Island became a symbol of the breakdown in criminal justice in New York and fueled the drive to ban solitary confinement for youths in the city’s jails.Mr. Browder, who was 16 years old when he was arrested in 2010 and accused of stealing a backpack, was detained on Rikers Island for three years — about two of which were spent in solitary confinement — without being tried or convicted of a crime. In 2015, at age 22, he hanged himself at his parents’ home in the Bronx.The settlement, which is cited in a court document, was confirmed by the city and the family’s lawyer.In a statement, the city’s Law Department said, “Kalief Browder’s story helped inspire numerous reforms to the justice system to prevent this tragedy from ever happening again, including an end to punitive segregation for young people on Rikers Island.“We hope that this settlement and our continuing reforms help bring some measure of closure to the Browder family,” the statement added.The civil rights and wrongful death action is before a judge in State Supreme Court in the Bronx.The family’s lawyer, Sanford A. Rubenstein, said papers would soon be submitted to the judge “to finalize the resolution of this matter.”“It’s a fair settlement, given the tragedy of what happened here,” Mr. Rubenstein said. “While no money can ever bring Kalief Browder back, we hope the settlement of this case and the changes that took place at Rikers will result in this not happening to any other victims.”Mr. Browder’s case was first chronicled in a 2014 article in The New Yorker, which described how he was beaten by correction officers, and endured repeated delays in the clogged Bronx court.Mr. Browder also turned down offers to plead guilty, including one that would have allowed for his immediate release, as he insisted on his innocence, the article said. Bronx prosecutors ultimately dropped the case against Mr. Browder, who was released in 2013.In December 2014, Mayor Bill de Blasio said the city had ended the use of solitary confinement for 16- and 17-year-olds. After Mr. Browder’s death the following June, Mr. de Blasio said in a statement that “Kalief’s story helped inspire our efforts” at Rikers Island.“There is no reason he should have gone through this ordeal,” Mr. de Blasio said, “and his tragic death is a reminder that we must continue to work each day to provide the mental health services so many New Yorkers need.”The de Blasio administration also developed a plan to move Rikers inmates under 18 to a dedicated jail for youths in the Bronx.In 2016, President Barack Obama wrote an op-ed article in The Washington Post announcing a ban on solitary confinement for juveniles in federal prisons. In it, Mr. Obama cited Mr. Browder’s “constant struggle to recover from the trauma of being locked up alone for 23 hours a day” and his suicide.Susan Beachy contributed reportingFollow Benjamin Weiser on Twitter: @BenWeiserNYTAdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszLONDON — The story of Keira Ball, a sprightly 9 year old, did not end in the summer of 2017, when she was fatally injured in a car accident in England. Her parents consented to donating her organs, saving the life of Max Johnson, also 9, whose heart was failing because of an infection.Pictures of these two children, who never met in life, have been on newspaper front pages and news broadcasts in Britain this week, the most highly publicized of the cases that have helped win passage of what has been called Max and Keira’s law. It is intended to boost Britain’s low rate of organ donations by making most adults presumed organ donors by 2020.Under the new system, which was expected to win final approval in Parliament on Tuesday, adults living in England, with narrow exceptions, would be considered potential donors unless they had expressed objections. Wales already has a presumed consent or “opt-out” system, and on Tuesday, Scotland’s Parliament debated a bill to create a similar one.“Although we’d never discussed organ donation, I knew it was what Keira would have wanted,” her father, Joe Ball, told the BBC. “It was in her nature.”The House of Commons has approved the presumed consent bill. It was set for its third and final consideration on Monday evening by the House of Lords, which rarely intervenes at that late stage.Countries that have presumed consent generally have higher donation rates than those with opt-in systems, which take organs only from people who have stated a wish to donate, or whose families approve after they have died. In the United States, people must fill out forms or join an online registry to donate organs, or their families must give approval.The demand for organs and other tissues exceeds the supply, and every year thousands of people die for lack of a transplant, including hundreds in Britain.“We very much hope that once this new law comes into force in spring 2020, we will see similar results to those we have witnessed in Wales, with more people and families agreeing to donation, enabling more lifesaving transplants to take place,” said John Forsythe, a medical director at N.H.S. Blood and Transplant, the arm of Britain’s National Health Service that organizes donations.The agency says that more than 80 percent of Britons support organ donation. When asked, grieving families usually approve of donation, but organs are often lost to delays in obtaining consent.Spain was one of the first countries to adopt presumed consent, in 1979, and it has one of the highest donation rates in the world — more than double that of Britain. But some experts have argued that presumed consent alone is not enough.Since 1989, Spain has placed transplant coordinators in most hospitals, even small ones, in an attempt to identify potential donors. Their presence has increased donation rates more than the opt-out law alone, an article in The British Medical Journal said in 2010.According to Dr. José Ramon Nuñez, who leads the transplant program at the World Health Organization, the most important factor to help increase organ donations is gaining people’s trust.“We have to try and transmit to families that they can be a donor and they can also be a recipient at any time,” Dr. Nuñez said. “And if they see clarity, they see fairness in the way organs are allocated, they can be generous in donating their organs.”A previous attempt to pass presumed consent legislation in Britain failed in 2008, in part because of opposition from religious leaders. But public support for donation has grown, and only 6 percent of families rejected consent on religious or cultural grounds in the financial year ending in March 2018.Follow Palko Karasz on Twitter: @karaszpalko.OpinionDavid BornsteinAdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesHONG KONG — Singapore takes pride in being a technology hub where municipal decisions are driven by cutting-edge data science.“Data is the new currency, and with open data, the possibilities are endless!” the government says on its “smart nation” portal.But that image has been dented by two embarrassing data breaches.Last year, a cyberattack on Singapore’s public health system compromised data from 1.5 million people. And on Monday, the Health Ministry said that medical records for 14,200 H.I.V.-positive people in the city-state had been obtained by an American whose Singaporean partner worked at the ministry. The ministry said it learned on Jan. 22 that the records had been illegally disclosed online.Experts say the breaches highlight the potential pitfalls for Singapore and other countries that are pushing to make vast troves of data more accessible and centralized. Do the public benefits justify the inherent risks to privacy? And can anyone prevent senior officials from misusing information they have at their fingertips?In addition, the H.I.V. records breach illuminates the widespread stigma and discrimination that people with the virus face in Singapore, a conservative society where gay sex — which accounts for roughly half of new H.I.V. infections in the country — is banned under a colonial-era law.“Why are people so concerned about their status being known?” said Eamonn Murphy, the Asia Pacific director at the United Nations agency UNAIDS. “It’s the issue of stigma and discrimination, and it’s familial, for some of them, but clearly workplace: fear of loss of employment.”“That’s a bigger issue that the ministry or the government of Singapore should be trying to address,” Mr. Murphy said.The authorities say the perpetrator in the cyberattack last year targeted the medical records of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, a cancer survivor. S. Iswaran, the minister of communication and information, told lawmakers this month that the attacker could not be identified because of national security concerns.Mr. Iswaran also said that copied personal data had not “emerged in any form” on the so-called dark web, a part of the internet that relies on encryption and is often used for criminal activities.In the second episode, the Health Ministry said it learned in 2016 that a foreigner might have been in possession of confidential information from the H.I.V. registry. The records included names, identification numbers, contact details, H.I.V. test results and related medical information for 5,400 Singaporeans whose infections were diagnosed as recently as January 2013, and 8,800 foreigners diagnosed up to December 2011.The suspect, Mikhy K. Farrera Brochez, is an American who reportedly tested positive for H.I.V. in 2008 using a fake passport from the Bahamas, shortly after arriving in Singapore.Foreigners with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, are not allowed to work in Singapore. To get around that, prosecutors said, Mr. Brochez’s partner, Ler Teck Siang — a Singaporean doctor who works at the Health Ministry — twice submitted his own blood sample when the Singaporean authorities tested Mr. Brochez for H.I.V.“This incident is believed to have arisen from the mishandling of information by Ler, who is suspected of not having complied with the policies and guidelines on the handling of confidential information,” the Health Ministry said in a statement on Monday.Desmond Wai, a gastroenterologist at Mount Elizabeth Novena Specialist Center in Singapore, said that the cyberattack last year illustrated how the country’s electronic records are vulnerable to hacking, no matter how secure they may appear.“There is a Chinese saying: ‘If the good is one feet tall, the evil will be three feet tall,’” he said. "So I think there’s always a risk.”Dr. Wai said that for the most part it was not fair to blame the Health Ministry for the second breach, because it would be hard to prevent a senior official from gaining access to the government’s H.I.V. registry.But he added that Dr. Ler, the former head of the ministry’s National Public Health Unit, should not have had such wide access to national H.I.V. records in the first place, nor an ability to download them.Tom Uren, a cyberpolicy analyst at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute in Canberra, said that the leak of Singapore’s H.I.V. records highlighted a common challenge that many governments face: trying improve overall health services and efficiency while also protecting individuals’ privacy.While Singapore’s H.I.V. registry was clearly raided by a “bad apple,” he added, the leak points to potential problems with oversight of the record-keeping system — and with the storage of H.I.V. test results alongside so much personal information.“There’s actually no need for all that data to be held together,” Mr. Uren said.Mr. Brochez was convicted in 2017 of numerous offenses, including lying to labor officials about his H.I.V. status, providing false information to the police and using forged degree certificates in job applications, the ministry said.He was sentenced to 28 months in prison, and later deported. The ministry said he was currently outside Singapore, but it did not specify where.His partner, Dr. Ler, was sentenced in November to 24 months in prison for abetting cheating and providing false information to the police and the Health Ministry. Dr. Ler, who is appealing that conviction, has also been charged with mishandling confidential information related to H.I.V.-positive patients.On Monday, the Health Ministry apologized for “the anxiety and distress caused by this incident” and said it had been contacting those affected by the breach. The ministry also said it would “continue to regularly review our systems to ensure that they remain secure and that the necessary safeguards are in place.”As of late Tuesday evening, the ministry had not responded to questions from The New York Times about how the two data breaches occurred.Advocacy groups say the disclosure of so many records has sent chills through H.I.V.-positive people in Singapore who were already battling a widespread stigma.About half of the roughly 450 new cases of H.I.V. infection reported in Singapore each year are transmitted through same-sex intercourse, according to the Health Ministry’s data. But experts say that a major barrier to prevention is that few gay and bisexual men in Singapore are open about their sexual orientation.“Fear is what drives people underground and makes them come too late to health services,” said Mr. Murphy of UNAIDS. “One, it doesn’t help them for their own personal health outcome, and two, it doesn’t help prevent further transmissions of disease. This is why it’s so critical to have a protective environment.”Roy Chan, an expert on H.I.V. at the National University of Singapore and the president of the advocacy group Action for AIDS Singapore, said in a statement that the group was “deeply troubled” by the data leak.He said it was a criminal act that should be “condemned and answered in the most severe terms possible.”Paerin Choa, a spokesman for Pink Dot SG, a group that advocates for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people in Singapore, said victims of the leak now faced “the prospect of further stigmatization and discrimination, thanks to the fear and ignorance surrounding H.I.V. and people living with H.I.V.”Mr. Choa said that people had no legal protection from discrimination in the workplace based on their H.I.V. status, sexual orientation or gender identity, and that the practice of deporting immigrants who test positive for the virus was unnecessarily cruel.He said the government should “take moral and political responsibility by acknowledging what H.I.V.-positive individuals have to endure in our country, and take concrete action to enact anti-discrimination legislation to support” them.“This would reduce harm done to those whose names have been exposed,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del Real and Robert PearLOS ANGELES — Once again taking aim at President Trump, California on Monday filed its 47th lawsuit against the administration, this time to block a move that would effectively strip millions of federal dollars from reproductive health providers that perform abortions and abortion referrals.Attorney General Xavier Becerra, who has become one of Mr. Trump’s most aggressive critics, said Monday that the administration’s changes to Title X, the federal family planning program, would punish doctors and clinics for giving women a comprehensive portrait of their reproductive options. The administration announced those changes last month.“This is 2019, not 1920,” Mr. Becerra said in an interview. “Jeopardizing the health of women is not what we should be doing in the year 2019.”On Monday, 20 other states, plus Washington, D.C., said they would file a separate lawsuit challenging the same restrictions.Millions of low-income patients receive reproductive health services each year through Title X, a $286 million federal family planning initiative. Programs that receive Title X funding provide a range of services, including family counseling, preventive health screenings for breast and cervical cancers, contraceptives, and treatment for sexually transmitted infections.About 40 percent of the 4,000 clinics nationwide that receive Title X funding are operated by Planned Parenthood.The lawsuit by California was filed on Monday just hours after the restrictions devised by the Trump administration were published in the Federal Register.It was already against the law for health care providers to use federal funds for abortions. The new rule would prohibit organizations that provide referrals for abortions from accepting any federal funds for family planning.“These rules were put in specifically to target Planned Parenthood,” said Crystal Strait, the head of the organization’s operations in California.On a practical level, the administration’s order would bar doctors from mentioning the option of an abortion in nearly all cases, Ms. Strait said.“This builds a wall between a doctor and her patients,” Ms. Strait said. “We’ve never in the United States accepted that. When you go into your physician, you expect to get medically accurate options.”Clinics that receive federal funds can provide patients with a list of primary health care providers, including those that provide prenatal care, but cannot identify which ones on the list, if any, perform abortions.The final rule also requires a complete separation of family planning and abortion services at clinics that offer both. Federal health officials estimate that 10 to 20 percent of Title X sites do not comply and would have to spend an average of $20,000 each to meet the requirement.The new requirements would effectively redirect Planned Parenthood’s $60 million in yearly funding to faith-based and alternative providers unless its clinics dramatically changed the way they operate.Anti-abortion organizations applauded the administration’s rule change.Patrina Mosley, the director of Life, Culture and Women’s Advocacy at the conservative Family Research Council, said clinics like Planned Parenthood’s had been operating “against the very statute for which the money is intended” by providing referrals for abortions.She said Monday’s lawsuits were frustrating but not surprising. “When the administration does something that the left doesn’t like, they go to court,” she said. “This is the habitual pattern.”The change, critics argue, threatens to leave women without a full understanding of their reproductive options.Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon, a Democrat, criticized the new rule as “another attack from the Trump administration on women and families.” Oregon is leading the coalition of states that plan to challenge the rule in a separate lawsuit on Tuesday.California would be hit particularly hard by the administration’s order, Mr. Becerra said. Of the four million women affected by the ruling nationwide, more than one million are in California, he said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsIt may take federal officials two years to identify what could be thousands of immigrant children who were separated from their families at the southern United States border, the government said in court documents filed on Friday.A federal judge had asked for a plan to identify these children and their families after a report from government inspectors in January revealed that the Trump administration most likely separated thousands more children from their parents than was previously believed.These families were separated before the administration unveiled its “zero-tolerance” immigration policy in the spring of 2018, when nearly all adults entering the country illegally were prosecuted and any children accompanying them were put into shelters or foster care.To identify these families, the government said it would apply a statistical analysis to about 47,000 children who were referred to the Office of Refugee Resettlement and subsequently discharged, according to the court filing. From there, the government said it would manually review the case records of the children who appeared to have the highest probability of being part of the separated families.Officials estimated that the process would take at least one year and potentially two. In explaining the reason for such an arduous process, the government said United States Customs and Border Protection did not collect specific data on migrant family separations before April 2018.Lawyers representing the Office of Refugee Resettlement did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Saturday.In a court filing for the government, Jonathan White, a commander with the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, wrote that identifying this group of children presented new challenges because they were already discharged from the Office of Refugee Resettlement, meaning the government “lacks access” to them.The statistical analysis was required because manually reviewing the cases of nearly 50,000 children would “overwhelm” the office’s resources, he wrote.The government’s proposed plan arose from a class-action lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California. In June, Judge Dana M. Sabraw ordered the reunification of children and parents who had been separated under the Trump administration policy. President Trump rescinded the policy that same month.About 2,800 children have been reunified with their families or situated according to their parents’ wishes, said Lee Gelernt, who challenged the policy in court on behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union.The January report, by the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, revealed that a group of separated families was unaccounted for because the government lacked an effective tracking system. In March, Judge Sabraw ruled that those families should be included in the litigation.Mr. Gelernt said this identification process should take months, not years. “If the government believed finding these children was a priority, they could do it quicker than two years,” Mr. Gelernt said.The families the government may now be tasked with locating are those who entered the United States on or after July 1, 2017, the earliest known date that families were separated; were detained by immigration officials; and have a child who was detained and then released to a sponsor, such as a relative, before the judge’s reunification order on June 26, 2018.When the government previously identified children for reunification, it included only the children who were detained at the time of the reunification order.Judge Sabraw wrote in his March 8 order that because all of these families had been subjected to the same policies and had been separated under “questionable circumstances,” they should have the same opportunity for relief. Although identifying the families may be burdensome, as the government argued, “it clearly can be done,” the judge wrote.According to the government’s proposed plan, officials would update the A.C.L.U. about the families’ information after completing the analysis and reviewing the children’s cases. The organization would then use that information to help reunify parents and children.Mr. Gelernt said a two-year wait to reunite families would be devastating. The longer these children remained separated from their families, he said, the more psychological trauma they would endure. He said the A.C.L.U. planned to argue against the proposed plan in court.The family separations were a central part of the Trump administration’s effort to deter migrant families from trying to enter the United States through its southern border with Mexico.Data released last month suggested that the administration’s immigration measures — including the separation policy and attempts to beef up border security and limit who qualified for asylum — failed to deter tens of thousands of migrants traveling to the United States, most of whom were escaping violence and poverty in Central America.Follow Julia Jacobs on Twitter: @juliarebeccaj.AdvertisementSupported byBy Iliana MagraLONDON — Students in England already learn about mathematics, science and history, but hundreds of schools are preparing to expand the traditional curriculum with a new subject: mindfulness.In up to 370 English schools, students will start to practice mindfulness as part of a study to improve youth mental health, the British government said on Monday.They will work with mental health experts to learn relaxation techniques, breathing exercises and other methods to “help them regulate their emotions,” the government said in a news release announcing the program.The goal of the program is to study which approaches work best for young people in a world of rapid change. The government said the study, which will run until 2021, is one of the largest of its kind in the world.“As a society, we are much more open about our mental health than ever before, but the modern world has brought new pressures for children,” Damian Hinds, the British education secretary, said in a statement.“Children will start to be introduced gradually to issues around mental health, well-being and happiness right from the start of primary school,” he added.The initiative comes months after a survey commissioned by the National Health Service found that one in eight children in England between the ages of 5 and 19 suffered from at least one mental disorder at the time of their assessment in 2017.The survey, which was published in November, also indicated a slight increase in mental disorders in five to 15-year-olds, which rose to 11.2 percent in 2017 from 9.7 percent in 1999. Disorders like anxiety and depression were the most common, affecting one in 12 children and early adolescents in 2017, and appeared more often in girls.Imran Hussain, the director of policy and campaigns for Action for Children, a British charity, in the United Kingdom, called it a “children’s mental health crisis.”“Every day our front-line services see children and teenagers struggling to get to grips with how they fit into the increasingly complex modern world — contending with things like intense pressure at school, bullying or problems at home, all while being bombarded by social media,” he said in a statement on Monday.He added: “Services like these can lessen the anxiety, pain and anguish that some teens go through, but also reduce their need for intensive support further down the line.”But two Parliamentary committees have criticized the government reports on which the program is based, for focusing on handling emotional problems rather than preventing them. In a report released last May, the Education and Health and Social Care Committees wrote, “the Government’s strategy lacks ambition and will provide no help to the majority of those children who desperately need it,” while increasing the workload of teachers.“The role of prevention appears to be a missing link in building better support for children and young people, especially in the early years,” the committees wrote. They found that social media and the schools’ system of high-pressure exams can have particularly negative effects on the mental health of young people.But Dr. Jessica Deighton, an associate professor in child mental health and well-being at University College London who is leading the government trials, said that the new initiative was intended to offer more than quick fixes.“There is a tendency to think that the solution is mental health intervention,” she said on Monday. “We will try to reduce the stigma against mental health problems, by making the school environment literate in mental health.”She said the program included several tactics, including training teachers to hold role-playing exercises, teaching relaxation practices and inviting professionals for group discussions.“It’s not just to make them feel better in the short-term,” Dr. Deighton said, “but to better equip them for later in life.”AdvertisementSupported byAfter nearly three agonizing years, the people are fed up. What’s next — recession, civil unrest or another referendum? By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistSWINDON, England — Mr. and Mrs. Average are said to live in this southwestern English town better known as a political bellwether than for any charm. Its 54.7 percent vote for Brexit in 2016 was one of the first results announced, an early indicator of upheaval. Now, with less than a month until the March 29 deadline for Britain to leave the European Union, it’s again aligned with most of the country, this time in its cluelessness as to what is about to happen.To paraphrase Churchill, much invoked by Brexiteers as a symbol of the rule-Britannia greatness they believe will return once Britain is freed from its European shackles: Never was so little known by so many about so much.Britain is in a funk. “Just get this over with,” is a plea I heard often from Brexit-battered Brits, as if they were waiting to have a limb amputated. After nearly three years, they’re done. All the oxygen has been sucked from the room by the Conservative Prime Minister Theresa May’s floundering attempt to end the country’s 46-year membership in the European Union.It’s not easy to make an egg from an omelet, as Pascal Lamy, the former head of the World Trade Organization, has observed. I grew up in a Britain where “the Continent,” a faintly distasteful geographical mass associated with rabies and garlic, was far away. The E.U. changed that. Now, through finance, trade, law, values and culture, Britain is mixed into a borderless market of 28 nations and more than a half-billion people that has brought peace, stability and an unprecedented, if uneven, prosperity to Europe. Britain’s decision to break from that is a curious act of self-harm, linked, like the election of Donald Trump, to the desperation of our times.The country’s main political parties, the Conservatives and Labour, buffeted by the Brexit maelstrom, are in crisis — beset by desertions, insurrections and division. As elsewhere in Western democracies shaken by the failings of liberalism, hard-line factions to the left and right have gained sway. They offer rekindled socialism or make-Britain-great-again nationalism as the answer to inequality and ennui.The center looks weak, even if defectors from Labour and the Conservative Parties last month formed an Independent Group to try to resurrect it. Parliamentary democracy, which is what Britain is, and democracy-by-plebiscite, which is what the 2016 vote was, are in a standoff: A sovereign Parliament has rejected May’s proposal while advocates of Brexit, on time and at any cost, bay about the sacred irreversible “will of the people.” Britain today poses the question of what 21st-century democracy is.May and Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour Party leader, have both made desperate concessions in the past week. They did so from weakness. May’s acknowledgment that Brexit could be delayed (the union would have to agree to that and would want to know why) and Corbyn’s support for a second referendum (a grudging move from a lifelong Euroskeptic heading a pro-E.U. party) added to the mayhem.Anything is possible. That’s now official. Britain could approve an amended May deal (essentially a fudge preserving British participation in the single market and customs union for now); crash out of the union like a lemming over a cliff; defer a decision; hold a second vote; or some weird combination.I met with David Renard, the Tory leader of Swindon’s borough council. He’s getting impatient. He says he wants British sovereignty back, rescued from a web of European Union regulations. He thinks Britain should get out, even without a deal. “The British people voted to leave. It would be an affront to democracy if we do not on March 29,” he told me. “Let’s get on with it! A lot of people would see a delay as the liberal elite establishment trying to find a way to stay in the E.U.”As a paid-up member of that establishment, I would see a delay and a second vote (one does not necessarily follow from the other) as an act of very British common sense. By focusing the zeitgeist’s every frustration on Brussels, the “Take Back Control” campaign in 2016 was a brilliant exercise in emotional transference. “Remain” equaled the status quo. To many people, for reasons that had little or nothing to do with the union, that was an unattractive proposition.As a practical matter, however, the decision to leave has been a disaster. “Fantasy Brexit,” was based on lies, like the imminent invasion of 80 million Turks. (Turkey joining the E.U. is about as likely as Saudi Arabia becoming a democracy.) Now Britain has had a three-year crash course in “Reality Brexit.” This has involved slower growth, lower investment and the collapse of the illusory idyll. Some 40 free trade deals were promised to replace free trade arrangements Britain benefits from as a union member. The government has concluded a handful, one of them with the Faroe Islands.Trump is not forever. Brexit is. Britain’s youth oppose it. A decision of this import should be grounded in reality.I sat for a while outside the Debenhams department store in downtown Swindon. The scene was not a happy one: stores for rent, people struggling to get by. Swindon is an hour by train from central London, the purring hub of pro-E.U. sentiment. It might as well be on another planet — and it’s still far better off than many towns in Britain. No wonder, I thought, that a majority here did not want to “remain.” Last month Honda, Swindon’s second-largest employer, announced the closure of its plant, with the loss of 3,500 jobs. There were various factors. They included a free trade agreement Japan has concluded with the European Union (making manufacture in Japan more attractive). Honda did not cite the elephant on its production line: Brexit.Imagine you’re in a board meeting in Tokyo looking at fathomless uncertainty in Britain for the foreseeable future: What would you decide? One angry Honda worker, with 24 years at the Swindon factory, had no doubt about the real culprit for his job loss: “The government’s completely incompetent handling of the whole thing doesn’t help either, does it?” he said in a Channel 4 interview that went viral. “They can’t even decide for themselves what Brexit means. This is idiocy of epic proportions.”Idiocy aside, it’s not easy to execute a decision based on mass delusion. As Robert Smith, a Swindon-based marketing director for a law firm, told me: “The gig economy is not Europe’s fault.” Nor is the large flux of migrants across the world, billionaire-favoring taxes and stagnant wages.“The European Union is our national scapegoat,” Sam Gyimah, a Tory M.P. who quit May’s government last November, told me. As minister for Universities, Science, Research and Innovation, Gyimah labored hard to make Brexit work. The more he labored, the less it seemed to make sense. “We get 1.5 pounds from the E.U. for every pound we put in,” he told me. “The University of Cambridge gets more than all of Romania.” Britain had invested heavily in Galileo, a global navigation satellite system created by the European Union. Now it has been shut out.When May produced her “deal” — in fact a proposal to defer for at least two years all the difficult decisions — Gyimah quit. “Look,” he told me. “There’s no majority for any option in Parliament. Therefore this has to go back to the people.”The people are restive. Renard told me the Swindon council is “making plans for civil unrest as a precaution,” should Brexit be delayed.Liberalism worked well for a while. It was good at freeing people from bigotry, sexism, racism, nationalism and prejudice. It was less good at providing people with meaning to their lives, beyond hedonism and materialism. In 2008, with the financial crisis, the wheels came off. Those responsible walked away. A lot of people felt empty, and were drowning in debt. What had the elite ever done for them? Bigotry and nationalism made a storming comeback. That’s Brexit in a nutshell.The reality, however, is that Brexit only compounds the problems. Will Dry, a student, voted for Brexit in 2016. He was 18 then. All his family told him Europe meant unemployment and refugees.Now Dry has taken time off from Oxford University and works to fight Brexit in London. He came, he told me, to “the realization we did not have a plan.” His new view is that “it’s far better to cooperate with neighbors and allies than ditch them.”With Lara Spirit, another student on leave from college, Dry is a co-president of O.F.O.C. (Our Future Our Choice — don’t try to pronounce the acronym), a youth movement that has sent a blue bus around Britain emblazoned with the words “Please stand up for our futures. Signed, young people.” The bus is a rebuke to the Brexiteers’ notorious red bus that, in 2016, spread the lie that more than $462 million a week going to the E.U. would be spent post-Brexit on the National Health Service. “I’m confident there will be a second vote,” Spirit told me.Polls suggest Britain would now vote to stay in the European Union, perhaps by a 54-46 percent margin. Hugo Dixon, the deputy chairman of a grass-roots movement for a second referendum, suggested this slogan: “Fix it. Not Brexit.”That’s good. Liberal democracy has failed too many of its citizens. Brexit and Trump prove that. The elites of these societies have to acknowledge their arrogant inattention. The answer is to fix problems — in education, the health service, taxation and uncontrolled immigration, to name a few.To return to Churchill, he declared in 1936 at another moment of British wavering: “So they go in strange paradox, decided only to be undecided, resolved to be irresolute, adamant for drift, solid for fluidity, all powerful to be impotent.” Three years into its agonizing Brexit odyssey, Britain is finally realizing that scapegoating Brussels has gotten it nowhere. It's going to have to fix its national problems — and the European Union could help.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Caitlin DickersonA 45-year-old Mexican migrant died on Monday in the custody of United States Customs and Border Protection, an event that was sure to intensify pressure on an agency overwhelmed by record numbers of migrant families crossing the border, while its health and safety standards have come under harsh public scrutiny.The migrant, who was not identified, had been apprehended on Feb. 2 by the police in Roma, Tex., near a port of entry into the United States, and requested medical attention. He was found to have cirrhosis of the liver and congestive heart failure, the agency said in a statement, and was hospitalized twice while in custody — the second time spending two weeks in the intensive care unit of the McAllen Medical Center. He died there around 9 a.m. Monday.The death came less than two months after 7-year-old Jakelin Caal Maquin and 8-year-old Felipe Gomez Alonzo also died in the agency’s custody, in December, amid three straight months of record-breaking numbers of migrant families entering the country. Both had shown symptoms of illness after they were taken into custody along the Southwest border, and their deaths prompted widespread condemnation from members of Congress and the public. The agency soon after announced new medical checks for children, and a temporary infusion of support from other federal agencies, including the Coast Guard and the United States Public Health Service.Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, has requested $800 million from Congress to address the influx of migrant children and families, calling it a “humanitarian crisis.” The money would go toward staffing, supplies and enhanced facilities, among other things.The migrant who died Monday was apprehended alone for “illegal re-entry,” meaning that he had entered the United States without authorization at least once in the past, according to Andrew Meehan, an assistant commissioner with the agency’s Office of Public Affairs.“This loss of life is tragic,” Mr. Meehan said in a statement. “Our condolences go out to the family and loved ones. C.B.P. remains committed to ensuring the safe and humane treatment of those within the care of our custody.”Many migrants who cross the Southwest border, hoping either to request asylum or sneak in illicitly, become injured or ill during their journey to the United States, while others arrive in need of care for chronic or longstanding conditions.The demographics of border crossers have evolved significantly in the last decade, putting a strain on C.B.P.’s resources. Once predominantly single, healthy men from Mexico who could be returned home within a few hours, a majority of current border crossers are Central Americans who cannot be turned back immediately because of legal provisions. Many of them request asylum, assuring an even longer stay in federal custody.More than 40 percent of migrants apprehended along the Southwest border enter through the Rio Grande Valley, where Roma is, and where local residents have become accustomed to a heavy presence of Border Patrol and newly arrived immigrants. Recently, though, higher numbers of migrants have been crossing in remote areas — in part as a result of harsh policies introduced by the Trump administration — where the lack of resources has been particularly acute.Encounters with migrants who have come to be in grave danger have also increased, the agency said, including 17 people who had to be rescued on Thursday after becoming stranded or overcome by swift currents as they tried to cross the Rio Grande. The rescues took place near Eagle Pass, Tex., about 200 miles northwest of Roma.C.B.P.’s Office of Professional Responsibility is reviewing the death that occurred on Monday, Mr. Meehan, the agency spokesman, said. The office is also reviewing the deaths of the two children that occurred in December. Jakelin Caal Maquin’s father has disputed the agency’s assertion that she had not eaten or had water for several days before they were apprehended.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — U.S. services sector activity hit a more than 19-month low in March and private payrolls grew less than expected, underscoring a loss of momentum in the economy that supports the Federal Reserve's move to suspend interest rate hikes this year.The reports on Wednesday came on the heels of some modestly upbeat data earlier in the week, including retail and motor vehicle sales and manufacturing. Investors are worried about a sharp slowdown in economic growth in the first quarter. The Fed last month ended its three-year campaign to tighten monetary policy, dropping projections for any interest rate increases this year. The U.S. central bank lifted borrowing costs four times in 2018."The yin and yang of the numbers makes it clear that the year of tax-induced solid growth is over," said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pennsylvania. "But growth is still decent."The Institute for Supply Management (ISM) said its non-manufacturing activity index fell 3.6 percentage points to 56.1, the lowest since August 2017. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the sector, which accounts for more than two-thirds of U.S. economic activity.Last month's sharp slowdown in services industry activity reflected a 7.3 points drop in the production subindex. Activity was also weighed down by decreases in new and export orders measures. A gauge of service sector employment rose. But many industries continued to believe that their inventories were too high, a potential hurdle for increased production.The ISM said while businesses in the services sector remained mostly optimistic about overall business conditions and the economy, "they still have underlying concerns about employment resources and capacity constraints."It said 16 industries, including utilities, real estate, finance and insurance, healthcare and social assistance, information, and professional, scientific and technical services reported growth last month. The two industries reporting contraction were education services and retail trade.WORKER SCARCITYBusinesses in the accommodation and food services industry complained that "labor is tight and in short supply." Similar complaints were also voiced by businesses in the transportation and public administration sectors. Miners said activity "held flat," while businesses in the professional, scientific and technical services reported that an "initial surge in business at the beginning of the year has peaked and settled to a more stable level."The economy is losing speed as stimulus from the Trump administration's $1.5 trillion in tax cuts diminishes. It is also facing headwinds from slowing global growth, Washington's trade war with China and uncertainty over Britain's exit from the European Union.Growth estimates for the first-quarter range from as low as a 1.4 percent annualized rate to as high as a 2.1 percent pace. The economy grew at a 2.2 percent pace in the fourth quarter."For the most part, GDP source reports have firmed lately following some very weak readings around the turn of the year," said Daniel Silver, an economist at JPMorgan in New York. "The timelier survey data signal that the recent firming may be temporary."The dollar was trading lower against a basket of currencies. U.S. Treasury prices fell, while stocks on Wall Street rose.The shortage of workers could be curbing job growth. The ADP National Employment Report on Wednesday showed private employers added 129,000 jobs in March, the fewest since September 2017, after creating 197,000 positions in February.The ADP figures came ahead of the Labor Department's more comprehensive non-farm payrolls report on Friday, which includes both public- and private-sector employment.The ADP report, which is jointly developed with Moody's Analytics, has a poor record predicting the private payrolls component of the government's employment report. But job growth has slowed from last year's 223,000 monthly average pace.Economists polled by Reuters are looking for private payroll employment to have grown by 170,000 jobs in March, up from 25,000 the month before. Total non-farm employment is expected to have increased by 180,000 jobs after a paltry 20,000 gain in February."There is sure to be a bounce back in the official data given how weak February was, the only question is how big it will be?" said Paul Ashworth, chief U.S. economist at Capital Economics in Toronto. AdvertisementFollow Us:Get the Upshot in your Inbox

      By JOSH KATZ, 
    
KEVIN QUEALY and 
    
MARGOT SANGER-KATZ

APRIL 10, 2019

How much would a “Medicare for all” plan, like the kind being introduced by Senator Bernie Sanders on Wednesday, change health spending in the United States?Some advocates have said costs would actually be lower because of gains in efficiency and scale, while critics have predicted huge increases.We asked a handful of economists and think tanks with a range of perspectives to estimate total American health care expenditures in 2019 under such a plan. The chart at the top of this page shows the estimates, both in composition and in total cost.In all of these estimates, patients and private insurers would spend far less, and the federal government would pay far more. But the overall changes are also important, and they’re larger than they may look. Even the difference between the most expensive estimate and the second-most expensive estimate was larger than the budget of most federal agencies.The big differences in the estimates of experts reflect the challenge of forecasting a change of this magnitude; it would be the largest domestic policy change in a generation.The proposals themselves are vague on crucial points. More broadly, any Medicare for all system would be influenced by the decisions and actions of parties concerned — patients, health care providers and political actors — in complex, hard-to-predict ways. But seeing the range of responses, and the things that all the experts agree on, can give us some ideas about what Medicare for all could mean for the country’s budget and economy.These estimates come from:Gerald Friedman, a professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, whose estimates were frequently cited by the Bernie Sanders presidential campaign in 2016.Charles Blahous, a senior research strategist at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, and a former trustee of Medicare and Social Security.Analysts at the RAND Corporation, a global policy research group that has estimated the effects of several single-payer health care proposals.Kenneth E. Thorpe, the chairman of the health policy department at Emory University, who helped Vermont estimate the costs of a single-payer proposal there in 2006.Analysts at the Urban Institute, a Washington policy research group that frequently estimates the effects of health policy changes.Right now, individuals and employers pay insurance premiums; people pay cash co-payments for drugs; and state governments pay a share of Medicaid costs. In a Sanders-style system or one recently introduced by Representative Pramila Jayapal and the Congressional Progressive Caucus, nearly all of that would be replaced by federal spending. That’s why some experts describe such a system as single-payer. (Other Democrats who are supporting coverage expansion through Medicare have offered more modest proposals that would preserve some out-of-pocket spending and a role for private insurance.)The economists made their calculations using different assumptions and methods, and you can read more about those methods at the bottom of this article.These two estimates, for example, from the Mercatus Center and the Urban Institute, differ by about $730 billion per year, roughly 3 percent of G.D.P. The two groups don’t often agree on public policy — Mercatus tends to be more right-leaning and Urban more left-leaning.The biggest difference between the Mercatus estimate and the Urban one is related to how much the new system would pay doctors, hospitals and other medical providers for health services. Mr. Friedman’s estimate, the least expensive of the group, assumed that the government could achieve the largest cost savings on both prescription drugs and administrative spending.In our current system, doctors, hospitals and other health care providers are paid by a number of insurers, and those insurers all pay them slightly different prices. In general, private insurance pays medical providers more than Medicare does. Under a Medicare for all system, Medicare would pick up all the bills. Paying the same prices that Medicare pays now would mean an effective pay cut for medical providers who currently see a lot of patients with private insurance.For a Medicare for all system to save money, it needs to reduce the health care industry’s income somewhat. But if rates are too low, hospitals already facing financial difficulties could be put out of business.Neither Mr. Sanders’s legislation nor the Jayapal House bill specify what the Medicare for all system would pay, but they say that Medicare would establish budgets and payment rates. So our estimators offered their best guess of what they thought such a plan might do.Mr. Thorpe said he picked a number higher than current Medicare prices for hospitals, because he thought anything lower would be unsustainable. Mr. Blahous said he constructed his starting estimate at precisely Medicare rates, though he thought the real number would most likely be higher. He also reran his calculations with a more generous assumption: At 111 percent of Medicare, around the average amount all health insurers pay medical providers now, the total shot up by hundreds of billions of dollars, about an additional 1.5 percent of G.D.P.Patients in the United States pay the highest prices in the world for prescription drugs. That’s partly a result of a fractured system in which different payers negotiate separately for drug benefits. But it also reflects national preferences: An effective negotiator needs to be able to say no, and American patients tend to want access to the widest array of cutting-edge drugs, even if it means paying more.A Medicare for all system would have more leverage with the drug industry because it could bargain for the whole country’s drug supply at once. But politics would still be a constraint. A system willing to pay for fewer drugs could probably get bigger discounts than one that wanted to preserve the current set of choices. That would mean, though, that some patients would be denied the medications they want.All of our economists thought a Medicare for all system could negotiate lower prices than the current ones. But they differed in their assessments of how cutthroat a negotiator Medicare would be. Mr. Friedman thought Medicare for all could reduce drug spending by nearly a third. The Urban team said the savings would be at least 20 percent. The other researchers imagined more modest reductions.Medicare for all would give insurance to around 28 million Americans who don’t have it now. And evidence shows that people use more health services when they’re insured. That change alone would increase the bill for the program.Other changes to Medicare for all would also tend to increase health care spending. Some proposals would eliminate nearly all co-payments and deductibles. Evidence shows that people tend to go to the doctor more when there’s no such cost sharing. The proposed plans would also add medical benefits not typically covered by health insurance, such as dental care, hearing aids and optometry services, which would increase their use.The economists differ somewhat in how much they think people would increase their use of medical services. (Because of the way the Urban Institute team’s estimate was calculated, it couldn’t easily provide a number for this question.)The complexity of the American system means that administrative costs can often be high. Insurance companies spend on negotiations, claims review, marketing and sometimes shareholder returns. One key possible advantage of a Medicare for all system would be to strip away some of those overhead costs.But estimating possible savings in management and administration is not easy. Medicare currently has a much lower administrative cost share than other forms of insurance, but it also covers sicker people, distorting such comparisons. Certain administrative functions, like fraud detection, can have a substantial return on investment.The economists all said administrative costs would be lower under Medicare for all, but they differed on how much. Those differences amount to percentage points on top of the differing estimates of medical spending. On this question, there was rough agreement among our estimators that administrative costs would be no higher than 6 percent of medical costs, a number similar to the administrative costs that large employers spend on their health plans. Mr. Blahous said a 6 percent estimate would probably apply to populations currently covered under private insurance, but did not calculate an overall rate.All of these estimates looked at the potential health care bill under a Sanders-style Medicare for all plan. In some estimates, the country would not pay more for health care, but there would still be a drastic shift in who is doing the paying. Individuals and their employers now pay nearly half of the total cost of medical care, but that percentage would fall close to zero, and the percentage paid by the federal government would rise to compensate. Even under Mr. Blahous’s lower estimate, which assumes a reduction in overall health care spending, federal spending on health care would still increase by 10 percent of G.D.P., or  more than triple what the government spends on the military.How that transfer takes place is one of the least well explained parts of the reform proposals. Taxation is the most obvious way to collect that extra revenue, but so far none of the current Medicare for all proposals have included a detailed tax plan. Even if total medical spending stayed flat over all, some taxpayers could come out ahead and pay less; others could find themselves paying more.Raising revenue would require broad tax increases that are likely to be partly borne by the middle class, potentially impeding passage. Advocates, including Mr. Sanders, tend to favor funding the program with payroll taxes.For some people, any increase in federal taxes might be more than offset by reductions in their spending on premiums, co-payments, deductibles and state taxes. There is evidence to suggest that premium savings by employers would also be returned to workers in the form of higher salaries. But, depending on the details, other groups could end up paying more in tax increases than they save in those reductions.After Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign released a tax proposal in 2016, the Urban Institute tried to calculate the effects on different groups. But it found that the proposed taxes would pay for only about half of the increased federal bill. That means that a real financing proposal would probably need to raise a lot more in taxes. How those are spread across the population would change who would be better or worse off under Medicare for all.Our economists differed somewhat in their estimation methods. They also examined a couple of different Medicare for all proposals, though all the plans had the same major features.Gerald Friedman calculated the cost of Medicare for all by making adjustments to current health care spending using assumptions he derived from the research literature. His measurements didn’t capture the behavior of individual Americans, but estimated broader changes as groups of people gained access to different insurance, and as medical providers earned a different mix of payments. A 2018 paper with his analysis of several different variations on Medicare for all is available here.Kenneth E. Thorpe calculated the cost of Medicare for all by making adjustments to current health care spending using assumptions he derived from the research literature. His measurements didn’t capture the behavior of individual Americans, but estimated broader changes as groups of people gained access to different insurance, and as medical providers earned a different mix of payments. A 2016 paper with more of his findings on Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign proposal is available here.The Urban Institute built its estimates using a microsimulation model, which estimates how individuals with different incomes and health care needs would respond to changes in health insurance. The model does not consider the effects of policy changes on military and veterans’ health care or the Indian Health Service, so its totals assumed those programs would not change. It also measures limits on the availability of doctors and hospitals using evidence from the Medicaid program. The team at Urban that prepared the calculations includes John Holahan, Lisa Clemans-Cope, Matthew Buettgens, Melissa Favreault, Linda J. Blumberg and Siyabonga Ndwandwe. Its detailed report on Mr. Sanders’s presidential campaign proposal from 2016 is available here.AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders object to a plan to privatize the V.A. system. To the Editor: Re “Privatize Care for Vets,” by Anuradha Bhagwati (Op-Ed, Feb. 4):Ms. Bhagwati’s problems are unfortunate, but it is not surprising that occasional patients in this vast system have medical experiences that are personally unsatisfactory. The great majority of patients find their care at V.A. facilities more than satisfactory. An eligible person who requests a first-time V.A. outpatient appointment must receive one within 30 days and is usually seen sooner if mental health problems are concerned. The V.A.’s computerized record-keeping system is one of the best in the country, and medical records from distant facilities are instantly available. Our costs are lower(physicians’ salaries; drugs and medical supplies bought in large quantities; expensive and unnecessary tests and procedures avoided), and our outcomes (complications and mortality for certain conditions and procedures, length of hospital stay) match or better those elsewhere in the United States.Charges to patients, if any, are preset, minimal and determined by ability to pay. The V.A. is a leader in American medical care. Its problems should be addressed and corrected. It should not be weakened or destroyed by privatization. Samuel L. RosenthalLarchmont, N.Y.The writer is an internist at the New York Harbor V.A. Medical Center.To the Editor:As a psychiatric nurse-practitioner and service member, and as a psychiatrist in the V.A. system, respectively, we are concerned that the perspective of this article may deter female veterans from receiving V.A. treatment.We are dedicated to providing trauma-informed care for veterans regardless of race, gender or sexual identification.Current initiatives support the growing female and L.G.B.T.Q. veteran population. Some of this is evidenced in our Women’s Clinic, access to female providers in a variety of subspecialties, and strides in Military Sexual Trauma identification and treatment.In our own practice and experience, we do not see this as consistent with a “hypermasculine military culture.” It would be an injustice if the opinion presented in this article served as a deterrent to treatment for other female veterans who are considering V.A. services now, or in the future.Amy RobertsShuba RodriguesWest Haven, Conn.To the Editor:Re “V.A. Rule Would Broaden Access to Private Health Care for Some Veterans” (news article, Jan. 31):The Department of Veterans Affairs has begun to shift tremendous resources, measured in billions, away from publicly provided — and therefore publicly accountable — medical and surgical care.Precisely the wrong direction!What is the big problem at the publicly run veterans hospitals and clinics? Cynically underfund a great public service and then advertise only its failures, while ignoring its fundamental and irrefutable successes.The V.A. should not be torn down, but defended and expanded — on history, on principle and especially on its superlative health outcomes. Instead of privatization, we should demand expansion of the V.A.We desperately need a national health program. We should see in the V.A. system a foundation for a national health service, able to offer excellent and accountable care for everyone in the United States.Andrew D. CoatesDelmar, N.Y. The writer, an assistant professor of medicine and psychiatry at Albany Medical College, is a past president of Physicians for a National Health Program.To the Editor:The Trump administration has embarked upon partial privatization of V.A. health care. Other superior options still available for the V.A. include increased staffing of V.A. physicians and health personnel, extended V.A. clinic hours, including evenings and weekends, and adding drop-in clinics in V.A. health facilities. Such changes would prove more efficient and less costly, and provide greater continuity and higher quality of care than shunting veterans to private vendors.The Trump administration has been less than candid in denying its intent to privatize the entire V.A. health system, a goal promoted by the Koch billionaires.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSALEM, Ore. — Oregon's foster care system has failed to shield children from abuse and they are sometimes forced to stay in refurbished jail cells and homeless shelters, according to a lawsuit filed Tuesday.The 77-page complaint filed in U.S. District Court details stories of foster children being neglected or harmed while under Department of Human Services care, including a 16-year-old girl sent to a juvenile jail after she had previously tried to kill herself.The agency has weathered years criticism over the way it treats children and has paid out tens of millions of dollars to settle previous complaints.The lawsuit also comes as the state agency fights off criticism from lawmakers over a recent news report that found a 9-year-old girl had been placed in an out-of-state residential facility in Montana, where she was injected with Benadryl to control her behavior and went without visits from a caseworker for six months. More than 80 children are housed outside Oregon."The big problem is that Oregon has failed to develop specialized placements or even enough placements for kids in care," said Marcia Lowry, executive director of A Better Childhood, one of the nonprofits behind the lawsuit. "Oregon goes well beyond what even the national problems are."In a statement, DHS Director Fariborz Pakseresht said the agency is committed to finding children appropriate placement, especially those with intellectual and developmental disabilities. He said it is taking steps to address the problems identified in the lawsuit, and is finalizing a long-term, statewide plan to recruit more foster families.DHS also plans to reassess its use of out-of-state facilities, he said.At a legislative hearing last week, Pakseresht recognized flaws within the system, but maintained that the agency still provides quality services for the 7,500 youth in its care."We do make mistakes," Pakseresht told lawmakers. "A few mistakes - 10 mistakes, 20 mistakes, 30 mistakes - are never acceptable, but they don't constitute a system that is broken."Since 2006, the agency has paid $39 million in legal settlements over allegations of abuse and neglect. But Christine Shank, one of the managing lawyers in the case, said the fundamental problems within DHS haven't changed."We're hoping this case can really be a catalyst for systemic change," said Shank, a lawyer with Disability Rights Oregon.In the case of the 16-year-old girl, lawyers say she landed in state care after her father refused to get her mental health services. Her lawyers say she remained without therapy as she was shuffled between facilities, including homeless shelters, out of a lack of placement options.At the Klamath Falls, Oregon, facility, which houses both juvenile inmates and at-risk foster youth, lawyers say the girl lived in a cinder-block cell where she couldn't keep any personal items except a book. She underwent daily extensive treatment for substance and sexual abuse, despite having never suffered from either. She had individualized therapy once a week, which her lawyers called inadequate.The lawsuit argues DHS hasn't done enough to shield children from abuse and neglect, a violation of their federal due process rights. The lawsuit also says the department has failed to provide foster children with a permanent, stable living situation.A 2016 federal audit found only 20% of foster children had "permanency and stability in their living conditions," while the majority were placed with foster parents who "may not have had the necessary skills" to care for them. The department made "concerted efforts" to provide children with permanent homes in 41% of cases.Elizabeth Graves, who is not associated with the lawsuit, said she entered DHS care when she was 13, and was moved between 15 foster and group homes within five years. Now 27, she said she still suffers from nightmares over the emotional abuse she endured.She became pregnant at 15, and said her circumstances began to improve when was sent to a Portland facility specifically serving girls who have young children or are pregnant. She received individualized attention plus parenting lessons.But, less than an hour after Graves gave birth, she said DHS intervened and put her son up for adoption. According to Graves, her caseworker had determined she was too young to care for the child."I did everything to prepare for him," she told The Associated Press. "I spent all that time at the group home learning how to take care of him and even set up a room for him. I cried and begged but they just took him from me."She now works as a credit card banker in Portland."I wouldn't have experienced the trauma I have today if I wasn't in foster care," she said. "I really hope this lawsuit finally does something. Kids are suffering and nobody is doing anything."AdvertisementSupported byLawmakers and social media platforms each have a role to play in fighting back.By The Editorial BoardVideo by Taige Jensen, Jenn Lyon and Joey AbissoThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.This cartoon from Times Opinion tells the story of an infectious disease named Measles. Lucky for her, there are many adults who doubt the scientific evidence that supports vaccination.Measles, a virus that invades the nose and throat, causing fever, cough and phlegm, is one of the most contagious pathogens on the planet. Before 1963, it infected some four million people every year in the United States alone. Nearly 50,000 of them would land in the hospital with complications like severe diarrhea, pneumonia and brain inflammation that sometimes resulted in lifelong disability. Of the 500 or so patients who died from these complications each year, most were children younger than 5.Until recently, those numbers were a matter of history. The measles vaccine, which was introduced to the United States in 1963, drove the annual case count from four million to zero inside of four decades. Measles was officially eradicated in America in 2000 and was largely wiped from our collective memory soon after.But in the shadow of that memory lapse, a different virus has spread: anti-vaccine propaganda and vaccine misinformation. Both have persuaded a small but growing number of parents that vaccines designed to inoculate against infectious diseases pose a greater health risk than the diseases themselves. As a result, these parents are skipping crucial shots for their children. And as the number of unvaccinated children grows, some vaccine-preventable diseases are making a comeback.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has logged at least six measles outbreaks so far this year, across five states, involving more than 100 patients. In recent weeks, as those numbers have ticked upward, both houses of Congress have held hearings to discuss the issue, while more states have considered limiting vaccine exemptions for school-age children and several prominent social media platforms have pledged to block anti-vaccine propaganda and vaccine misinformation from their sites.For a while, it was easy to dismiss the nation’s anti-vaccine contingent. The vast majority of Americans still recognize vaccines as a crucial element of personal and public health. Some 92 percent of vaccine-eligible people in the United States have been inoculated against measles, and nearly as many have had shots to protect against the other vaccine-preventable diseases, including diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis.But the new rash of outbreaks has made clear that even small pockets of vaccine hesitancy and refusal can have grave consequences. And health officials say that if left unchecked, this outbreak crisis will only worsen.The steps taken in recent weeks mark a good start to addressing a problem that can no longer be ignored. But much more is still needed:Every dollar spent on childhood immunization saves between $10 and $16 in future costs to the health care system. Yet funding for the federal immunization grant program, part of the Public Health Service Act, has been relatively flat for a decade. The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, which includes funding to help states respond to public health emergencies, has lapsed and is awaiting reauthorization. And the C.D.C., the nation’s leading public health agency, is in urgent need of a budget increase. For health officials to combat current outbreaks and prevent future ones, all of these programs will need more money.Pinterest, YouTube and Facebook have made a good start in acknowledging the problem of vaccine misinformation on their platforms, and they’ve all taken at least some steps to address it. Pinterest has restricted vaccine search results, YouTube has barred anti-vaccine channels from running advertisements and Facebook has said that it will no longer allow anti-vaccine advertisements on its pages. Other sites — like Google, Amazon and Twitter  — should follow these examples, and all social media platforms should consider having scientists vet vaccine content for accuracy. A partnership between federal agencies and private internet behemoths — to better understand and more quickly dismantle the anti-vaccine movement — also would help. As Vox points out, this movement has an outsize media footprint and an impressive lobbying arm; it will take more than a few websites acting independently to defeat it. As health care workers struggle to persuade wary parents that vaccines are safe, elected officials who understand the importance of this work ought to stop undermining it. In one recent congressional hearing, Senator Rand Paul, a medical doctor, acknowledged that the benefits of vaccines far outweigh the risks. But instead of taking a stand for vaccination mandates, he warned of sacrificing “liberty for a false sense of security.” Such statements — and the lax exemption policies that Mr. Paul and several of his colleagues support — might please some voters, but they will not nudge diseases like measles back into history. AdvertisementSupported byOf course a man has the right to change his mind …By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistIt’s only a matter of time before some state passes a law prohibiting women from getting abortions after the second week of pregnancy.Really, that’s the way things seem to be going. Right now, there’s a big drive to set the limit at around six weeks. If you are a woman who happens to live in Kentucky or Mississippi, your state lawmakers seem to believe you are so in tune with your own personal biology that you will not only realize you’re pregnant within six weeks, but could also find the time to arrange an abortion, even if there’s only one abortion clinic in the entire state.Although obviously the real plan is to keep you pregnant, whether you like it or not.Six-week bills — they’re tied to the arrival of the first fetal heartbeat — are moving through legislatures in about a dozen states. Some are supposed to slumber in a sort of legal cocoon until the moment — looking at you, Justice Kavanaugh! — when the Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade.Dr. Leana Wen, president of Planned Parenthood, counts over 250 bills to ban or restrict abortion that were introduced in state legislatures this year — a jump of about 63 percent compared with last year. “We know this is a direct response to Brett Kavanaugh being on the Supreme Court.”Lots of these eager legislators are hoping that their anti-abortion bill will spark a suit that makes their state the one to deliver a case to Kavanaugh and his colleagues. Maybe Georgia was trying to attract some special attention when it passed a law imposing up to 10 years in prison on any woman who terminates a pregnancy after a heartbeat is detected.Certainly hard to ignore. There doesn’t seem to be any punishment for the father. This gives us a chance to recall that when Donald Trump was running for president, at one point he seemed to be supporting the idea of jail time for women who got abortions. But when the interviewer asked about the man, Trump speedily responded, “I would say no.”Just for the record, back in 1999, on “Meet the Press,” Trump referred to himself as pro-choice four times. (“I am very pro-choice in every respect.”) But he was only, what — 53? Still evolving.Trump has, of course, remade himself into an anti-abortion ideologue who nominates Supreme Court justices of like mind. In response, in state capitols around the country, legislators are comparing abortion to the Holocaust (Alabama), calling it “slaughter” (Tennessee) and referring to the pregnant woman as a “host body” (Florida).There doesn’t seem to be time to mention the idea of helping women avoid pregnancy by expanding family planning services. Consider Missouri, where the legislature is currently working on one of those six-week bills. Missouri has been at war with Planned Parenthood for years because Planned Parenthood clinics advise pregnant women that there is an abortion option.No consideration of all the health services and counseling the clinics offer, at a time when sexually transmitted diseases are soaring in the state. Pamela Merritt of the abortion access group Reproaction complains that while the state is fighting Planned Parenthood, it funnels millions of dollars into what she calls “fake clinics” that don’t do anything more than dissuade women with unwanted pregnancies from having an abortion.“The maternal mortality is 50 percent higher than the rest of the country and rising,” said Dr. Wen, who feels a special affinity to the state, where she went to medical school.When it comes to thoughtful planning, the Trump administration seems to be on the same wavelength. It awarded $450,000 to the Obria Group, which provides family planning services that include just about everything except, um, contraception.“They are so vehemently anti-birth control,” said Alice Huling, a lawyer for Campaign for Accountability, a group that has been in court trying to get access to information on Obria’s programs. Not only does Obria avoid the pill, it also doesn’t provide patients with IUDs or even condoms.Here’s the thing: If you want to claim the moral high ground in a fight over terminating pregnancy, you have to support effective family planning. Otherwise you’re either an appalling hypocrite or an elected official attempting to impose your religion on Americans of different faiths.What’s truly going on here, people, is a war against sex without procreation. If the people declaring they’re “pro-life” in legislatures around the country were only concerned about stopping abortion, they’d be handing out vouchers for free contraceptives at every street corner.Some religions, notably including the Catholic Church, believe sex is sinful if it precludes the possibility of producing a baby. The First Amendment gives the faithful the right to try to convince women that their way is God’s way. But it doesn’t allow them to pass laws that make the rest of the country follow their religious tenets.There ought to be a way for people of good will to join hands and work together to make all pregnancies wanted pregnancies. There are plenty of good strategies: Effective sex education in the schools. Affordable family planning services for all.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie AstorSingle-issue voters are common enough. Single-issue candidates are unicorns.This hasn’t deterred Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, who entered the presidential race on Friday on a bold bet: that a singular focus on combating climate change can distinguish him in one of the largest Democratic fields ever.Just spitballing here, but perhaps saving people and the planet from climate catastrophe, and creating millions of jobs doing it, should be THE top issue. 2020 must be a referendum on climate action. https://t.co/OGXiUF8GftHere is a look at what Mr. Inslee wants to do about the climate, as well as other significant issues, even if he doesn’t emphasize them in his campaign.Projections on the effects of climate change are increasingly dire, and Mr. Inslee argues that combating it should take precedence over all else — though he rejects the premise that it can be neatly separated from other issues to begin with. Extreme weather has exacerbated refugee crises and fueled immigration, for instance. Heat waves and poor air quality affect health.Mr. Inslee has praised the Green New Deal — a sweeping proposal by some Democrats in Congress that, among many other environmental and economic goals, calls for a fully renewable energy supply within 10 years — for elevating public discussion of climate change and acknowledging the scale of the action needed. But he has also described it as more of an “aspirational” outline of principles than a policy document.His environmental policy record in his home state is long. In 2015, he ordered Washington’s Department of Ecology to impose a cap on carbon emissions. He created a fund for clean energy, and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses. While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels, Washington had the highest G.D.P. growth in the nation in 2018, according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax, which would have been the first in the nation; voters rejected the proposal in November. He then proposed a different series of actions, including running the state’s electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045, requiring buildings to be more energy efficient, promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons, which are used in air-conditioners. Hydrofluorocarbon emissions have been growing faster than any other form of greenhouse gas emissions.In an op-ed in The Washington Post, Mr. Inslee called for net-zero carbon emissions nationwide by 2050 — a longer timeline than the Green New Deal’s 10 years, which experts say is unrealistic. (“Net-zero” could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether, or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest.) He also called for a “100 percent clean-energy grid” and “massive investments” to transition buildings, industries and transportation to renewable sources.While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change, he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.• He has been outspoken in favor of gun control, and after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., last year, he confronted President Trump on live television, denouncing Mr. Trump’s suggestion to arm schoolteachers. Among other measures, he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons. His advocacy on the issue goes back many years; he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.• He supports universal health care in some form and recently proposed a government-funded “public option” on Washington’s insurance exchange, which he cast as the first step toward a universal program.• While he has not released a federal tax proposal, he recently introduced a plan in Washington State that would increase several taxes and institute a 9 percent tax on some capital gains. (The state doesn’t tax capital gains now.) His budget would increase spending by about 20 percent to fund anti-climate-change programs, education and mental health services, and to protect endangered orcas.• He backed legislation to increase Washington’s minimum wage from $9.47 an hour to $12. Voters approved that increase in 2016, and it has been phased in gradually.• He supports legalizing marijuana and announced a program in January that will pardon some Washington residents previously convicted of marijuana possession.• He opposes the death penalty as currently administered and suspended executions in Washington in 2014, saying the risk of wrongful convictions was unacceptable. “There are too many flaws in the system,” he said at the time, “and when the ultimate decision is death, there is too much at stake to accept an imperfect system.”Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.AdvertisementSupported byBy Brad WolvertonThe email set off alarms at Ithaca College.“I’m literally fighting for my life but staying safe,” 22-year-old Christopher Biehn emailed a professor in late September. “I won’t be in class today (or perhaps for a bit) & just pray I won’t be hospitalized long-term.”As Mr. Biehn prepared to check into a psychiatric ward four hours from campus, a crisis team from the private liberal arts college in central New York swung into action. Shortly after Mr. Biehn wrote to his professor, a campus safety officer went to his apartment to make sure he was O.K. A social worker from the college reached out to discuss academic options as he worked to manage his bipolar disorder.Two weeks later, after returning to his home in Medford, N.J., for treatment, he applied for a medical leave of absence from the college — his sixth leave in four years.In extensive interviews, Mr. Biehn recounted his experiences. He has also written about them in a blog and in Ithaca College’s student paper. He started a grass-roots social media campaign to promote acceptance for mood disorders, inspired to share his story in hopes of helping others.His journey illustrates the intense struggles students can face and the increasing steps colleges are taking to manage what some experts are calling a mental health crisis on campus. (Ithaca officials said they could not discuss a student’s health records, citing federal privacy laws.)Students and institutions are grappling with issues like the surge in school shootings and trauma from suicides and sexual assault. But it’s not just the crises that have shaken this generation — it’s the grinding, everyday stresses, from social media pressures to relationship problems to increased academic expectations.More than 60 percent of college students said they had experienced “overwhelming anxiety” in the past year, according to a 2018 report from the American College Health Association. Over 40 percent said they felt so depressed they had difficulty functioning.Money problems are exacerbating their worries. Mental health professionals say college students have experienced financial burdens on a different scale than many of their predecessors. They grew up during the Great Recession and have seen family members lose jobs and homes. They have great uncertainty about their career prospects and feel pressure to excel academically or risk losing job opportunities.“There’s a much more radical feeling that you’re either a winner or a loser,” said Victor Schwartz, a psychiatrist and medical director of the Jed Foundation, which helps colleges improve their mental health programming. “That’s put tremendous pressure on college students and is feeding a lot of the anxiety we’re seeing.”As students have encountered more mental health problems, they have sought help in record numbers. Between the fall of 2009 and spring of 2015, the number of students who visited campus counseling centers increased by more than 30 percent, while college enrollment climbed just 5 percent, according to a 2015 report by the Center for Collegiate Mental Health.People of all ages, but young adults in particular, are increasingly comfortable sharing intimate details of their mental health conditions, right down to their dose of antidepressant. Many expect their colleges to help them cope.“You want a college that treats you for the person you are and gives you the help you deserve,” said Katia Seitz, a 19-year-old high school senior from Houston, who has received treatment for an eating disorder. “You don’t want a college that shuts you off or feels like it’s not their responsibility to take care of you.”Several admissions officials say they have seen a rise in inquiries regarding counseling and mental health services and accommodations from parents and prospective students.Colleges have helped drive demand for mental health services, pouring money into education and training to help students identify problems and learn where to turn for help. But critics say many colleges have not adequately prepared for the increasing demand, leaving some students frustrated.Nationwide, students typically have to wait almost seven business days for their first appointment with a college counselor, according to a 2017 report from the Association for University and College Counseling Center Directors. But at some colleges, it can be more than two months.Three years ago, the counseling center at Queens College had 60 students on its waiting list (it does not require anyone experiencing a crisis to wait). Like many institutions, it began restricting the number of times students could see a counselor, from unlimited visits to 12. At the start of this semester, its waiting list was down to 30 students. But wait times can grow during peak periods.“As we approach midterms, it feels like we’re running a crisis clinic rather than a counseling center,” said Barbara Moore, director of counseling, health and wellness. She would like to add more counselors, but doesn’t have the space.Many colleges, however, are increasing their ranks. At least 155 counseling centers added new clinical positions from July 1, 2016, to June 30, 2017, according to the report by the association for counseling center directors.Studies show that hiring additional therapists can help keep students healthy and enrolled, which can be a good return on investment for an institution.“If your tuition is $50,000 a year and your counseling budget is $1 million, your counseling center doesn’t have to retain that many students to make up that cost,” said Greg Eells, director of counseling and psychological services at Cornell University.A recent independent review of Ithaca College’s student health and psychological services center, which found gaps in senior leadership and access to care, prompted the college to create a senior-level position responsible for student wellness and to make other improvements. Since 2017, the college has added two positions to both its counseling and case-management staffs.[Read more about what some schools have done to address students’ mental health.]The 2007 mass shooting at Virginia Tech, which prompted universities to change how they deal with mental health issues, led many institutions to hire case managers, or “ICare” teams, like Ithaca’s, whose jobs include helping students in distress. Just 25 people attended the inaugural meeting of the Higher Education Case Managers Association, in 2008, the group said. By the end of this year, the association expects to have more than 900 members.And although colleges have increased the size of their counseling staffs, many campuses are still straining to keep up, forcing some institutions to rethink their treatment strategies.Daniel Eisenberg, a University of Michigan professor, said many colleges were also intrigued with the idea of online treatment, but were skeptical of its merits.“One of the best parts of campuses is that we have this in-person community where we can support students, so why start doing things online? It’s a debate or question that’s hanging over higher education,” said Dr. Eisenberg, who is helping to lead a large study to better understand the effectiveness of online treatment.Traumatic incidents have helped other institutions revamp their intake processes. A 2010 shooting at the University of Texas led its counseling center to develop a crisis-response system now used to assess all students seeking mental health treatment. The university’s “brief assessment and referral team,” or B.A.R.T., aims to identify students’ problems quickly and direct them to the right service.U.T. refers many students to one of the 30 to 40 counseling groups it administers each semester. Among other things, the groups have helped survivors of sexual assault and students exploring different identities. The forums show students they are not alone, which can be a powerful message. They also help reduce the load on university counselors.“We would love to provide all the resources to all the students,” said Christopher Brownson, associate vice president for student affairs and director of the university’s counseling and mental health center. “But the answer to all social and emotional problems in the world cannot be to go see your therapist.”Other institutions have found success with modified counseling sessions. Penn State University has set up a half-dozen drop-in clinics at places like residence halls and student unions where students can consult with a licensed therapist without having to make an appointment.“You drop in, get your answer and go on your way,” said Ben Locke, senior director for counseling and psychological services. “It fundamentally changes the interaction.”Dozens of universities have placed therapists around their campuses, making it easier for students to find help in a convenient location. The University of Michigan has 12 “embedded” counselors, including psychologists and social workers, in its schools of engineering, dentistry and pharmacy. Other schools have placed full-time counselors in the athletic department, where they help players recover from head injuries or overcome mental performance blocks.The University of South Florida has gathered data on the students who seek mental health counseling at its main campus, in Tampa. It has found that about a quarter of them don’t need a therapist. They often just need better time-management or anxiety-reducing skills, said Rita DeBate, associate vice president for health and wellness.To help address those issues, the university created “relaxation stations” that include massage chairs, bean bags and nap pods — chairs that cost more than $10,000 each and have quickly become the most sought-after seats on campus.“We’d love it if we had a lazy river,” Dr. DeBate says, referring to the ultimate student amenity. But once students sink into one of those chairs, letting the white noise settle over them, it’s almost as nice, she says.Mr. Biehn, the Ithaca College student, has not found many relaxing moments since applying for his sixth medical leave last fall. The former high school class president, who was on a full academic scholarship at Ithaca, has tried dozens of medicines, but nothing seems to work. He hopes to finish his degree someday, but he has no plans to return to the college.Late last month, after sounding hopeful on a phone call with a reporter, he slipped into a dark place, returning to the psychiatric ward for another week. At his lowest moments, he said, he lies in bed, feeling numb.“I’m basically dead to the world,” he said, “even though there’s just enough breathing going on to call me alive.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen ZraickHow realistic should active-shooter trainings be?Not as lifelike as a drill at an Indiana elementary school in January, according to teachers there, whose union says they were shot with plastic pellets that caused welts, cuts and bruises.The teachers’ experience at Meadowlawn Elementary School in Monticello, Ind., was detailed by a representative from their union in testimony before state legislators this week. The union was promoting a provision that would bar trainers from shooting school staff members or students with any kind of projectile during safety drills.During the active-shooter drill, “four teachers at a time were taken into a room, told to crouch down and were shot execution style with some sort of projectiles — resulting in injuries to the extent that welts appeared, and blood was drawn,” the union, the Indiana State Teachers Association, wrote on Twitter during the hearing.“The teachers were terrified, but were told not to tell anyone what happened,” the union said. “Teachers waiting outside that heard the screaming were brought into the room four at a time and the shooting process was repeated.”The teachers have not been publicly identified, and none have spoken on the record about their experience.One teacher, who spoke on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisal, said trainers fired pellet guns at the teachers during several training exercises, not just the execution-style shooting. But in other exercises “you were allowed to try to not get hit,” she said in a phone interview on Friday.She said the teachers were not told they were going to be shot before the execution-style shooting exercise began, and the trainers did not ask the teachers about their medical histories before subjecting them to physical force.“It hurt really bad,” said the woman, who said she was left with bruises, welts and bleeding cuts that took almost two weeks to heal. “You don’t know who you are shooting and what types of experience those individuals had in the past, whether they had PTSD or anything else. And we didn’t know what we were going into.”She described the training as frightening, painful and insulting.“What makes it more outrageous is they thought we would need to have that experience of being shot to take this seriously,” she said. “When I thought about it that way, I really started to get angry. Like we are not professionals. It felt belittling.”Dan Holub, the executive director of the Indiana State Teachers Association, the state’s largest teachers’ union, said that teachers recognized the need for safety training but that the risks of venturing so far into realism outweighed the benefits.“We need to use common sense — and not use these extreme methods of training,” he said.The provision that the union is pushing for is an amendment to a school safety bill that would require schools to conduct annual active-shooter drills. The bill would also provide schools with funding for school resource officers and mental health services. It has passed the House and is now in the Senate.The author of the House bill, Representative Wendy McNamara, who is also a high school principal, said it was based on the recommendations of a task force authorized by the governor to examine school safety practices after the Parkland, Fla., shooting.She said that she learned of the drill only after her bill passed, but that she would work with colleagues to try to add appropriate language to protect teachers during safety drills.“You can only assume that people would want to be reasonable and put those protections in,” she said. “And if not, then I’ll find a way to make sure that happens.”Mr. Holub, whose organization represents 40,000 educators from kindergarten to 12th grade across the state, said it was the first time he had heard of such injuries during a safety drill. He added that he believed the police officers carrying out the exercise had gone beyond the prescribed curriculum of the training.The White County Sheriff’s Office, which conducted the drill, did not respond to a request for comment. The sheriff, Bill Brooks, told The Indianapolis Star that his officers would not use the pellets during teacher trainings anymore.The Twin Lakes School Corporation, which oversees Meadowlawn and four other schools in or near Monticello, about 90 minutes north of Indianapolis, issued a statement on Thursday about the training.The corporation said that it routinely teamed up with the sheriff’s office to run safety drills, including “ALICE training,” which stands for Alert, Lockdown, Inform, Counter, Evacuate. After teachers voiced concern about the training, the corporation met with them and the sheriff’s office to discuss the matter, the statement said.The ALICE trainings were developed by a private company after the Columbine shooting in 1999 and are now used in schools around the country.ALICE trainings have been criticized at times for their approach, which encourages countering — if there is no way to escape — in order to distract and disrupt a gunman.In a statement, the ALICE Training Institute said that its methods “empower individuals to participate in their own survival in the face of violence.”The statement said that the institute has tens of thousands of certified instructors across the country, and said that local agencies were best positioned to adapt the trainings to an institution or community’s needs.“ALICE training provides proactive response options to increase survivability,” the statement said.While school security has become a huge growth industry, experts caution that there is a scarcity of research about which tactics are most appropriate. Debates have erupted over arming teachers, the usefulness of metal detectors and best practices during unthinkable scenarios.“I’m not sure that one mock example of this would ever prepare anyone for what occurs during a true active-shooting situation,” Mr. Holub said.Liam Stack contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareThe growing use of electronic consultations can save time, expense and headaches. By Austin FraktThe kind of thing we have done instinctively in our workplaces for two decades — sending a quick email instead of setting up a meeting — has until recently eluded many doctors. Electronic consultations, or eConsults (sometimes called eReferrals), are a growing way for primary care doctors and specialists to communicate with each other securely. They can help patients avoid additional visits to specialists and free up capacity in crowded health systems, reducing waiting times for others.Studies have found that a large proportion of referrals to specialists — upward of 40 percent in some cases — are not needed.Getting the right medical advice without another visit to a specialist might be especially helpful for patients on Medicaid or without insurance. One national study found that nearly one-third of specialists are unwilling to make appointments with new Medicaid patients. Delays in getting the right advice from a specialist can cause harm. For patients who would have to travel far to see specialists — those in rural areas, for example — eConsults can save considerable time, expense and headaches.Here’s how eConsults work. When a question arises that your primary care doctor can’t answer without advice from a specialist — whether an M.R.I. for knee pain is warranted, for example, or how to interpret a test result — she messages a specialist reviewer for help. That reviewer engages in an electronic dialogue with your doctor to gather information and decide if the issue can be addressed without a separate visit. Often it can be.Some of the early eConsults adopters were the larger public health systems in the United States, including the Veterans Health Administration. The first U.S. system to adopt one, in 2005, was the San Francisco Department of Public Health. Wait times fell, and a large majority of primary care doctors said it improved care.“A safety net system can’t afford to hire enough specialists to meet demand — eConsults get around that problem by increasing access through enhancing efficiency,” said Dr. Mitchell Katz, who was director of the San Francisco Department of Public Health when eConsults began there. He is now the president of NYC Health & Hospitals, the nation’s largest public health care network, and he wants to expand the use of eConsults there as well.The Los Angeles County Department of Health Services, the second-largest public health care system in the nation, began using eConsults in 2012. A study in Health Affairs tracked waiting times for 12 types of specialists, including cardiology, gastroenterology, gynecology, ophthalmology, podiatry and urology. Before the eConsult system, waiting times for some specialists extended months. For gastroenterology and urology, one-quarter of patients waited over nine months for an appointment. By 2015, three years after the Los Angeles County eConsults system was in place, waiting times for specialists had fallen by an average of 17 percent, to 52 days from 63 days. The proportion of appointments scheduled within 30 days rose to 30 percent from 24 percent. A quarter of eConsult engagements between primary care and specialist physicians were resolved with no visit at all.“Because they’re so busy, doctors have a hard time talking to one another,” said Dr. Michael Barnett, a co-author of the study and an assistant professor of health policy and management at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. “EConsults resolve a lot of problems that can be addressed with simple communication.”Perhaps for this reason, a vast majority of primary care doctors express high levels of satisfaction with eConsults, according to a systematic review of them published in 2015. Patients generally report good experiences and high satisfaction with eConsults, too, though one study found that patients were equally satisfied with them versus in-person appointments.Most studies report high satisfaction from specialists, but one found that a large minority (26 percent) of them were dissatisfied. The concerns expressed included unclear clinical questions and the possible liability associated with providing medical advice for patients they hadn’t examined. In one study of the Mayo Clinic, a majority of primary care physicians said eConsults improved the quality of care. However, in another study of the Los Angeles County system, primary care doctors said eConsults shifted work and administrative burden to them.“Another concern is that over time specialist reviewers might become less engaged and route more patients to specialist visits to save time,” Dr. Barnett said. “If that happens, the resource-saving benefits of eConsults would fall.”Despite these limitations, eConsults have also performed well in other health systems. Randomized trials in a Veterans Health Administration hospital and in a community health center found that eConsults significantly sped up specialist input. A systematic review of eConsult systems in the United States — including at Kaiser Permanente and the Mayo Clinic — and abroad yielded similar results, but little evidence on improved outcomes.Electronic consultations are less expensive than in-person visits, but they aren’t without cost. Someone has to do the work of figuring out how to respond to each inquiry. Some insurers and public programs — Medicare  just started covering it this year — reimburse physicians for eConsults. But patients don’t pay for eConsults, whereas in-person visits would typically cost them something, depending on insurance coverage.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlotte Graham-McLayCHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand — Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has been the sunny face of New Zealand, celebrated as the nation’s youngest leader in 150 years, the one who gave birth in office and brought her baby to the floor of the United Nations. At 38, she’s pitched progressive politics and her nation’s charms to Stephen Colbert and the “Today” show. Vogue magazine called her the “anti-Trump.”Now, with the massacre of 50 people at two mosques by a gunman espousing anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant hatred, Ms. Ardern is back in the international spotlight, but the glamour is gone. Instead, she speaks for New Zealand at a moment of national pain, her vision of kindness in politics tested by the worst mass murder in her country’s modern history.“We represent diversity, kindness, compassion. A home for those who share our values. Refuge for those who need it,” she told reporters at Parliament as the horror of the shootings began to unfold on Friday, her words broadcast around the world even as the killer’s video and manifesto of hatred were spreading online. Ms. Ardern herself had been emailed a copy of the manifesto minutes before the massacre began.“You may have chosen us,” she said of the gunman, “but we utterly reject and condemn you.”That sentiment has echoed across New Zealand in the aftermath of the shootings. In a country of less than five million people, prized for its safety and natural beauty, people had the same refrain: Things like this do not happen here.On Saturday, thousands attended vigils and visited makeshift memorials around the country. They expressed disbelief on social media, using the hashtag #TheyAreUs to embrace the Muslim community.In Auckland, the largest city, a gathering in Aotea Square opened with a prayer for Muslims and others discriminated against around the world before the crowd sang “Stand by Me,” local news media reported. In the capital, Wellington, lampposts near the city’s largest mosque were plastered with signs.“Love and solidarity to our Muslim whanau,” the posters read, using the indigenous Maori word for family. “No room for racism here.”In Christchurch, where the massacre occurred, the tragedy drew together unlikely allies. Members of rival New Zealand gangs stood in solidarity outside Hagley College, where relatives of those dead, injured or missing gathered to console one another.“We’re here to show our support and our love,” said Karnz Vercoe, part of a group of former gang members called Tu Tangata.President Trump, who was mentioned as a source of inspiration in the manifesto believed to have been posted by the gunman, condemned the killings and called them a “horrible, disgraceful thing.” Asked by a reporter if he saw white nationalism as a rising threat around the world, Mr. Trump said: “I don’t really. I think it’s a small group of people that have very, very serious problems, I guess.”Ms. Ardern recounted on Saturday her own conversation with Mr. Trump after the attack. “He asked what support the United States could provide,” she said. “My message was: sympathy and love for all Muslim communities.”She said she had “conveyed the sentiment that I think exists here.”Aware that the eyes of the world are on New Zealand, many see Ms. Ardern as their representative for processing and reacting to the news.“Given the situation, I really don’t think anyone could do much better,” said Jordan Teheuheu, 21, who stopped at a makeshift memorial in Christchurch. “In our time of need, we need people who show who we are.”But Ms. Ardern, who took office in 2017, faces great challenges. She has promised to overhaul New Zealand’s gun laws in the wake of the attacks, though she has yet to say how and gun-rights supporters have pushed back.The Kiwi Gun Blog, an online publication, said that among the mosque shooter’s goals, one was “to cause the gun rights of responsible New Zealanders to be attacked.” It said “our prime minister is now capitulating.”A former race relations commissioner, Susan Devoy, has also called on the government to start counting instances of hate crimes, suggesting they are more common than New Zealanders like to think.“There can be no other response if we are serious about learning anything from the murders of our innocent people this week,” Ms. Devoy said.After speaking to the nation from the capital on Friday, Ms. Ardern flew to Christchurch on Saturday, accompanied by lawmakers from across the political spectrum.She was somber, dressed in black. At a meeting with Muslim leaders, for which she wore a black head scarf, Ms. Ardern asked those present what they would like her to do.“Our time is for you to determine,” she told the leaders. They wanted her to meet families of the victims, and she did.Christchurch, a city of 375,000, has faced tragedy before: It was rocked by major earthquakes in 2010 and 2011, demolishing much of the central city. The February 2011 quake killed 185 people.The city’s mental health services are still stretched to the breaking point. Just last month, Ms. Ardern promised $54 million for mental health treatment in Christchurch.Lynette Hardie Wills said people “are still suffering” after the quakes. Eight years later, she is waiting for repairs to her badly damaged home.AdvertisementSupported byIt has been almost three years since the Brexit vote. The case for going back to the people is strong.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistFirst, here’s the good news on Brexit. The Malthouse Compromise is dead. Britain has signed a post-Brexit free trade agreement with Fiji and Papua New Guinea. The irritating phrase “meaningful vote” has lost all meaning. Prime Minister Theresa May, who increasingly resembles one of those characters that just won’t die in a TV series, is running out of time to pop up again with her so-called “deal.”The bad news is we’re only in Act IV, if that. This British disaster has legs.It’s chaos out there with two weeks to go until the March 29 deadline for Britain to leave the European Union. This is what happens when English public school boys, nostalgic for Empire, dream up a scheme for the resurrection of British glory based on foisting every little-England frustration on their neighbors across the Channel who started or lost the war.Delusion is the mother of debacle. Jon Snow, the Channel 4 presenter, lost it with the health secretary Matt Hancock as he tried to express some pious hope. Snow pronounced Britain “completely asunder.” He said that “nobody in the country knows what’s going on,” and that Hancock knew “nothing.”His verdict on Britain after a week of parliamentary debate that went some way toward indicating what Britain doesn’t want but offered no clue as to what Britain does want: “We are a laughingstock.”The Brexit vote of 2016 was a fantasy, a case of what’s known in psychotherapy as transference. Somebody called a Brussels bureaucrat, a faceless schemer intent on ensnaring Britannia in his Continental rules, became the feckless foreigner onto whom every irritation — from waiting for help from the National Health Service to all the Polish kids in the local school — was transferred. Lies fed this process. The outcome was self-harm.All the parliamentary wrangling has amounted to an attempt to turn fantasy into reality — to reconcile a plebiscite with parliamentary democracy (which is what Britain is) and somehow kick the disaster that is Brexit into the long grass. The result was predictable: Even 650 M.P.s cannot force a square peg into a round hole.Parliament did reject a no-deal Brexit, the over-a-cliff solution that could see chaos at Dover; all the Brits with their pads in Provence and the Costa Brava and Chiantishire thrust into limbo and forced into the “other passports” line at European borders; and the severing of the multinational supply chains on which British industry depends.It also voted to postpone beyond March 29 Britain’s departure from the European Union.Neither of these votes, however, is “meaningful,” if meaningful is taken to mean that the outcomes they stipulate will happen.May will resurface next week in Parliament in a third attempt to get her “deal” (really a fudge postponing all major decisions) through. She will deploy dire warnings to try to get Tory hard-liners and the Northern Irish Democratic Unionist Party on board. In essence, she will say: It’s my deal or a long extension beyond March 29. And a long extension could well mean no Brexit.The vote will certainly be closer as maximalist pro-Brexit zealots within her Conservative Party, who want no accommodation with the European Union, realize their insanity could end up delivering the sanity of Britain remaining. It’s still more likely, however, that a deal twice defeated will be defeated a third time — unless May tries this desperate gambit: “Vote for the deal and I will resign March 30.” She won’t do that.If her deal finally dies an irrevocable death, May will have to negotiate an extension with the European Union. The union will want to know what the extension beyond March 29 is for. It will probably favor a long extension because a short one is likely to be useless, given that nearly three years of negotiation have produced only mayhem.Personally, I think an indefinite extension might be the solution lurking in the long grass. That way Britain could remain in the European Union forever while professing to want to leave. Brexit could be Britain’s Godot. Everyone would be happy.That won’t happen in this dour age. But I suspect a long extension will be granted with the reason for it getting fudged. If it’s not, no-deal Brexit looms again as imminent (in fact, it looms anyway as one possible outcome at the end of any long extension).Once this whole mess goes beyond March 29 (many Brits would now prefer summary execution to more talk of Brexit), all bets are off. Britain could find itself voting in the European Parliament election in May, a surreal exercise. In June, three years will have passed since the Brexit vote. Polls suggest opinion has shifted in favor of remaining. I can’t imagine a long extension without either a general election or a second referendum: This will have to go back to the people.I told you we are in Act IV, if that. Oh, yes, the Malthouse Compromise: You don’t need to worry, dear reader. It was a fantasy. What’s real is that Britain is better off with more than a half-billion other people in the borderless European miracle that is the union.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszLONDON — A veteran British Conservative lawmaker has blocked a bill that would offer greater protection to girls at risk of genital cutting, drawing criticism across the political spectrum, with some calling it an “appalling” move.And it wasn’t the first time.The bill would allow children to be placed in temporary care if they were deemed at risk of genital cutting, as is the case for other child abuse.But because the bill was not introduced by the government, a simple objection in a sparsely attended session was enough for Christopher Chope to block it on Friday on procedural grounds with one word — “Object” — the second time he has done so since November.Mr. Chope’s latest move came a week after a woman in London became the first in the country to be convicted by a jury over the genital cutting of her daughter, at a time of heightened awareness about the issue, prompting reaction from campaigners and senior colleagues.David Lammy, a Labour Party lawmaker, wrote on Twitter, “Christopher Chope embodies a brand of thoughtless, regressive conservatism which can ruin lives.”Nimco Ali, a survivor of genital cutting and women’s rights campaigner, posted an exchange of text messages online in which she had asked Mr. Chope to give the bill a chance. He said no, calling for a full debate.“The truth is, he is simply playing games and doesn’t give a stuff about vulnerable girls,” she wrote on Twitter.Mr. Chope could not be reached for comment on Saturday.Zac Goldsmith, a fellow Conservative, who was among the bill’s backers, called Mr. Chope’s objection “appalling.”In response, Mr. Chope accused his colleagues of “virtue-signaling rather than looking at the substance,” in an interview with The Daily Telegraph newspaper. “My constituents know what I am doing,” he said, adding that he was “not going to be put off” by a campaign of intimidation.The bill against genital cutting, introduced and debated in the upper house of Britain’s Parliament, had already cleared all stages there. But it has to pass the House of Commons before it can become law.On Friday, critics of Mr. Chope argued that his opposition wasn’t purely procedural. He previously objected to measures against taking upskirt photos of women and to the pardon of Alan Turing, the mathematician, computing pioneer and World War II code breaker convicted in 1952 for having sex with a man. (Versions of both bills passed later.)He has also consistently voted against allowing same-sex marriage in Britain, while most of his colleagues generally voted for it, according to TheyWorkForYou, a website that tracks votes and speeches by members of Parliament.Mr. Chope, who was first elected to Britain’s Parliament in 1983, is known for his opposition to the rapid passing of legislation brought without government support, called private members’ bills.In one of the singularities of Britain’s parliamentary system, bills can be proposed by any member of either house. But these texts are given less time for debate, and relatively few become laws. They have traditionally been used to highlight issues, spark larger debate and, in some cases, take the temperature of the room on issues likely to spark controversy.Britain legalized abortion in the late 1960s under a private member’s bill introduced by David Steel, a lawmaker who later became the leader of the small Liberal Party. The Labour government of the time gave its support only later and helped the bill get through Parliament.“I still get a mixture of fan and hate letters as though I were solely responsible for the legislation, when in fact I was just lucky to benefit from a quirk of British politics,” Mr. Steel wrote in The Independent in 2017, to mark the 50th anniversary of the bill.A random name-drawing grants priority to some private members’ bills, and he came third in the ballot.Genital cutting — the practice of cutting or removing a girl’s genitalia for social or cultural but not medical reasons — has been a crime in Britain since 1985. It is usually done before girls reach puberty, is extremely painful and can have long-lasting effects on sexual activity, childbirth and mental health.But as more women have immigrated to Britain from countries where the practice is widespread, a study from City University in London estimated the number of women affected at more than 130,000 in a country of 66 million.In a one-year period ending in March 2018, Britain’s national health service recorded 6,195 women and girls with genital cutting, according to data released last year.On Friday, Britain’s home secretary, Sajid Javid, said on Twitter that he was very disappointed by Mr. Chope’s move, adding that he was “determined to stamp out this despicable and medieval practice.”Follow Palko Karasz on Twitter: @karaszpalko.AdvertisementSupported byEl EspaceIt’s about planting seeds that will grow into understanding “whenever they’re ready.”By Concepción de LeónEl Espace is a column dedicated to news and culture relevant to Latinx communities. Expect politics, arts, analysis, personal essays and more. ¿Lo mejor? It’ll be in Spanish and English, so you can forward it to your tía, your primo Lalo or anyone else (read: everyone).Let me know if any of these sound familiar: Boys don’t cry. We don’t air family business. You have to be strong. Turn to God.These refrains (all of which I’ve heard at least once, some in the last month) are just some of the responses that people dealing with mental health challenges in Latino communities have come to know well. Going to therapy or struggling with mental illness can be viewed as a sign of weakness or that you’re “crazy.” Combine this with unequal access to mental health services and quality health insurance, and it’s no wonder that Latinos, who are just as likely to suffer from a mental illness as whites, are half as likely to seek treatment. When Adriana Alejandre, a therapist in the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles, started her practice in 2017, she tried to find accessible information for her predominantly Latino patients — the kind of resources that would apply directly to their lives. “I was super frustrated, because I couldn’t find any resources for my clients that were relevant, that were modern, that weren’t so much clinical jargon,” she said. So last year, she started a podcast to get the word out and help Latino patients see therapists as “more relatable.” Immediately she received dozens of responses asking for more information and, crucially, Spanish-language content. Alejandre started recording the episodes in Spanish as well as English. Now, Latinx Therapy is a full-fledged platform with a directory of therapists and free screening tests for depression, eating disorders and other common mental illnesses. At speaking engagements, Alejandre said, people still tell her things like “I’m not crazy,” or “That stuff is not for us, for our family. Our problems, we solve it ourselves.” She explained that Latino communities tend to be collectivist, meaning that we value the group over the individual, sometimes to personal detriment. In other words, if family members are resistant to therapy or talking about mental health struggles, “breaking that is tough,” Alejandre said. “The downfall is that people suffer in silence.”The mental health activist Dior Vargas, 31, was one of those people. “I didn’t talk about it with my family at all,” she said about her early struggles with anxiety and depression. “Everything really came to a head when I attempted to end my life when I was 18. That was an eye-opening experience for my family.”“We were all thrust into this really traumatic experience,” she added. Her family “went from having no knowledge to having a lot of knowledge.” One of the problems was that Vargas struggled with viewing her own experiences as valid. She grew up hearing about how many family members grew up poor in Ecuador, including her grandfather, who emigrated to the United States with only a third grade education. “There’s so much trauma he went through that he didn’t deal with, that he didn’t talk about,” she said. Hearing about her grandfather’s struggles made her think: “Who am I to talk about feeling depressed? Ain’t nobody got time for that.”But intergenerational trauma is a crucial reason for Latinos to go to therapy, said Alejandre. Not doing so “allows the cycle to continue — whether it’s trauma, whether it’s depression, anxiety, domestic violence,” she said.She suggests explaining therapy to family members by comparing it to other common treatments: “When we have a cough, we take cough syrup, jarabe, to feel better. When our minds are sick, we go to therapy.” She also said it’s important to clarify that therapy is not only for moments of crisis. “Therapy is a space where you can learn to build skills, whether that’s communication, whether that’s understanding yourself, creating boundaries.” For me, setting boundaries meant not telling anyone in my family that I was going to therapy for more than a year. It helped to have it be my own thing, to not have to answer to anyone or be questioned about what went on there. Vargas’s approach was to share “very general things so that they felt like they were part of it, but not to the extent that they knew too much, because that time between me and my therapist was my time.” Alejandre said: “It is tough when family sees you as ungrateful for healthy behaviors like boundary setting. But the system will not change if someone does not initiate the change.”And early conversations about therapy are like planting seeds in our communities, she added. Those seeds will grow into an understanding “whenever they’re ready.”Here are more stories to read this week. 📲 Check out our new Crossing the Border newsletter for (sometimes harrowing) stories about life on the U.S.-Mexico border.📺 Netflix is going to adapt “Cien Años de Soledad” into a series. 🎙 The former owner of La Marina, Fernando Mateo, went on “The Breakfast Club” to talk about the saga there.AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleImagine you could live your life without experiencing pain. Not quite as a superhero, you wouldn’t be super strong — you just wouldn’t feel any pain, physical or emotional. Ever.Would you choose that life?In “At 71, She’s Never Felt Pain or Anxiety. Now Scientists Know Why.,” Heather Murphy writes:She’d been told that childbirth was going to be painful. But as the hours wore on, nothing bothered her — even without an epidural.“I could feel that my body was changing, but it didn’t hurt me,” recalled the woman, Jo Cameron, who is now 71. She likened it to “a tickle.” Later, she would tell prospective mothers, “Don’t worry, it’s not as bad as people say it is.”It was only recently — more than four decades later — that she learned her friends were not exaggerating.Rather, there was something different about the way her body experienced pain: For the most part, it didn’t.Scientists believe they now understand why. In a paper published Thursday in The British Journal of Anaesthesia, researchers attributed Ms. Cameron’s virtually pain-free life to a mutation in a previously unidentified gene. The hope, they say, is that the finding could eventually contribute to the development of a novel pain treatment. They believe this mutation may also be connected to why Ms. Cameron has felt little anxiety or fear throughout her life and why her body heals quickly.The author discusses how Ms. Cameron was discovered by scientists:The sequence of events that led scientists to investigate Ms. Cameron’s genes began about five years ago. She was living a happy, ordinary life on the banks of Loch Ness in Scotland with her husband, she said. After a hand operation, a doctor seemed perplexed that she was not experiencing any pain and did not want painkillers.“I guarantee I won’t need anything,” Ms. Cameron recalled telling Dr. Devjit Srivastava, a consultant in anesthesia and pain medicine at a National Health Service hospital in northern Scotland and one of the authors of the paper.A few follow-up questions revealed that Ms. Cameron was unusual. At 65, she’d needed to have her hip replaced. Because it had not caused her pain, she had not noticed anything was amiss until it was severely degenerated. Cuts, burns, fractures — these did not hurt either. In fact, it often took the smell of burning flesh or her husband identifying blood for her to notice something wrong. She also reported that eating Scotch bonnet chili peppers left only a “pleasant glow.”The article continues:Scientists are also intrigued by Ms. Cameron’s extraordinarily low anxiety level. On an anxiety disorder questionnaire, she scored zero out of 21. She cannot recall ever having felt depressed or scared.“I am very happy,” she said.In retrospect, she sees how her genetic disposition may have aided her at work. After years as a primary-school teacher, she retrained to work with people with severe mental disabilities. Erratic, aggressive behavior never riled her, she said.But though having this mutation may sound like a dream, there are downsides. One is that she is quite forgetful; prone to losing her keys and her train of thought midsentence. The other is that she’s never felt the “adrenaline rush” that other people talk about, she said.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Would you want to live a life without ever feeling pain — physical and psychological? What would be the advantages and disadvantages of a life without pain?— How do you imagine your life would be different? In what ways might you be happier? What growth or development, stemming from anxiety or pain, might you have missed? Would you choose to live a pain-free life if it meant that you would never experience an adrenaline rush, as Ms. Cameron says she never has?— What role has physical pain played in your life? Do you think you have a high or low threshold for pain? Tell us about a memorable experience with physical pain. Were you able to take something positive from the experience?— In a related article, “The Value of Suffering,” Pico Iyer writes:Wise men in every tradition tell us that suffering brings clarity, illumination; for the Buddha, suffering is the first rule of life, and insofar as some of it arises from our own wrongheadedness — our cherishing of self — we have the cure for it within. Thus in certain cases, suffering may be an effect, as well as a cause, of taking ourselves too seriously. I once met a Zen-trained painter in Japan, in his 90s, who told me that suffering is a privilege, it moves us toward thinking about essential things and shakes us out of shortsighted complacency; when he was a boy, he said, it was believed you should pay for suffering, it proves such a hidden blessing.Do you agree? What life lessons can pain and suffering teach?— By some estimates, tens of millions of Americans suffer from chronic pain. The global pain management drug industry is valued at over $58 billion. Should scientists and pharmaceutical companies investigate Ms. Cameron’s case in hopes of developing more effective treatments for pain? If scientists were successful in developing a pain intervention or vaccine, would you seek out this product? Would you choose to shield your children from physical or emotional pain?Further Resources:How Pain Tolerance and Anxiety Seem to Be ConnectedA Soldier’s War on PainAdvertisementSupported byThe Trump administration’s cruel new family planning rule threatens access to contraception and other health care for poor women.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.In its continuing assault on reproductive rights, the Trump administration has issued potentially devastating changes to the nation’s nearly 50-year-old family planning program, Title X, which allows millions of women each year to afford contraception, cancer screenings and other critical health services.Health clinics have long been barred from using Title X money, or any federal funds, to pay for abortions, but they have been able to provide abortions and other family planning services under one roof. Under the new rule, unveiled last week by the Department of Health and Human Services after being floated last year, a clinic that provides abortions will have to jump through an absurd series of hoops to continue receiving Title X funding. For instance, it will have to create a separate entrance to the facility for patients seeking abortions, hire separate personnel and establish a separate electronic health records system. Title X facilities will also be barred from referring patients for abortions. The rule gives discretion to the department to decide on a case-by-case basis whether facilities are in compliance. This will sound familiar to anyone who has followed the proliferation of state anti-abortion laws over the past decade. Some of those laws have required abortion clinics to widen their hallways, revamp janitor’s closets and make other expensive changes that had little to do with their patients’ well-being. This latest move comes from the same playbook: impose unnecessary regulations for reproductive health clinics to impede women’s access to care.The bad news doesn’t stop there. The new Title X rule also removes the longstanding requirement that health care providers inform pregnant patients about their full range of options — prenatal care, termination, adoption. Critics of the rule worry that this will open the door to participation in the program by groups that are opposed to abortion or that emphasize abstinence over contraceptive use. The department acknowledges in the rule that it would allow funds to go to “entities that offer a single method [of family planning] or limited methods — including providers that might do so for reasons of conscience.”This element of the “domestic gag rule,” as many reproductive rights advocates have called the rule, isn’t just medically unnecessary — it’s unethical. It undermines the notion of informed consent, a core tenet of medical ethics that says patients must be made aware of the risks and benefits of all options before them. Under the new rule, staff members at Title X facilities who are morally opposed to abortion can effectively pretend that the procedure doesn’t exist — a lie by omission that no one would find acceptable in the context of any other form of health care.That’s not an accident. The anti-abortion movement has spent decades trying to make abortion seem separate from “regular” health care. The new Title X rule is just another example of that effort, brought about by a department that under President Trump has become stocked with anti-abortion and anti-contraception ideologues.Planned Parenthood already has said that if the rule is enacted — it will begin going into effect in about 60 days, barring litigation — then it will stop participating in the Title X program. It’s not clear how the nation’s many independent clinics would cope with the new rule, but some of them most likely would follow suit, and those that remain grantees of the program could become overwhelmed.As Dr. Leana Wen, the new president of Planned Parenthood, told The Times’s editorial board on Monday, “There will be many providers that will face an impossible decision: to participate in Title X and be forced to compromise their medical ethics, or to stop participating in that program.”Either of these options would amount to a huge loss for women around the country, many of whom rely on Title X as their sole source of health care. Planned Parenthood alone serves 1.6 million Title X patients each year — more than 40 percent of the women who receive care in the entire program — and stands to lose $50 million to $60 million annually. But ceasing to participate in a compromised Title X program is understandable, given that the new rule seems intended to make it all but impossible for many clinics to comply.Dr. Wen noted, rightly, that the new rule isn’t just about Planned Parenthood. “The harm isn’t to one organization; it’s to people’s health care,” she said. It’s clear, however, that the goal of the rule change is to satisfy Mr. Trump’s supporters by at least partly defunding Planned Parenthood — the boogeyman of the anti-abortion cause.It’s ironic that a rule change clearly rooted in anti-abortion sentiment will threaten access to contraception — the very thing that prevents unintended pregnancies. But it’s not surprising. The Trump administration has quietly been chipping away at contraception access for two years now — all the while pushing anti-abortion policies and with the president spreading lies about what abortion entails.With many medical groups, including the American Medical Association and the American College of Physicians, opposing the Title X rule change, it’s clear that the administration is not on the side of science or public health. Women across the nation will pay for it.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLONDON — Elly Wright can't sleep through the night.The Dutch native, who has lived in Britain for 51 years, keeps thinking about the black boots of Nazi soldiers marching by her basement window as they brought Jews to a nearby camp in her homeland. The flashbacks have been triggered by Britain's heated debate over leaving the European Union, which has brought division, strife and fear of foreigners. The 77-year-old painter says it has shattered her sense of belonging."(Britain) is my home," Wright said quietly. "That is being taken away from me."Wright isn't alone in her angst. The acrimony over Brexit, which has reached fever pitch as deadlines come and go while politicians squabble, is affecting the mental wellbeing of people from Belfast to Brighton.Job uncertainty. Visa worries. Confrontational conversations between family members or friends with opposing views on Brexit. The fatigue and stress caused by three years of conflict has spawned new terms: Brexhaustion or Strexit."It's a civil war," said Cary Cooper, a professor of organizational psychology at Manchester Business School. "What the country is going through is not a war with Europe. It's not us against them. It's internal."Just when some thought a conclusion could be drawn, Britain's departure was delayed by six months at an emergency EU summit this week. Whether in favor of exit or hoping to stay, the long argument just got longer, and, for many more stressful.Some have taken note of the trend. Online meditation provider Headspace has added bespoke meditations to help people manage Brexit stress, addressing issues such as having difficult conversations and what to do when you feel overwhelmed. Mike Ward, a London-based therapist who specializes in treating anxiety, estimates that some 40% of his patients now bring up Brexit-related issues, while cognitive-behavioral clinical hypnotherapist Becca Teers says many of her clients struggle with their lack of control over how Brexit might affect them.Researchers at the London School of Economics' Centre for Economic Performance, found that the "subjective well-being," or happiness, of Britons has declined since the 2016 referendum — regardless of a person's position on Brexit. The researchers believe this is because those in favor of remaining in the EU are upset with the outcome, and those who want to leave are unhappy with how politicians are handling the process.The study was based on an analysis of the Eurobarometer surveys conducted every year that ask 1,000 people in each EU country about the economic outlook, their job prospects and issues ranging from terrorism to immigration and climate change.Business consultant BritainThinks asked focus groups to name a song that encapsulated their emotions about Brexit. Their answer: the theme song from the classic horror movie "The Exorcist." And that question was asked before the EU stretched the deadline to Oct. 31, Halloween."People consistently tell us how worried (Brexit) makes them feel," said Tom Clarkson, research director at BritainThinks. "It's just pessimistic mood music in the background."Brexit has been a major story in Britain since before the June 2016 referendum, as the country tries to unpick the legal and economic ties that have bound it to the EU for over 40 years. Things have ramped up since December as Parliament repeatedly rejected a withdrawal agreement negotiated by Prime Minister Theresa May, raising the prospect of a chaotic no-deal exit that could have devastating effects on the economy.Television news broadcasts are dominated by Brexit, with pundits dissecting daily developments and politicians trading insults. Some people are glued to live parliamentary debates with a dedication normally reserved for soccer, but others have tuned out, unable to bear news of the latest incremental development that seems to resolve nothing. Meanwhile, issues like a surge in knife crime, homelessness and rising childhood poverty get scant coverage.Wright, for example, is watching the debates in Parliament, trying to make sense of all the arcane procedures and motions, knowing that the decision has implications for her life."I try to curtail (my viewing), but I get sucked in," she said. "I want to understand."Members of Parliament aren't immune to the stress. Lawmakers say they regularly receive death threats because of their positions on Brexit and some have publicly broken down in tears.Andrew Percy, an MP from the governing Conservative Party, said recently that he had found a cupboard inside the House of Commons where he occasionally retreats for a few moments of calm between debates."It feels as if we are under siege," Labour Party lawmaker Chris Bryant told the Times. "I know three MPs who have partners who are dying. They daily have to make the decision of whether to go home to see them or hang out for a vote that may never happen."Beyond Westminster, uncertainty is pervasive as companies try to prepare for the future without knowing what the economic rules will be.Autoworkers are already getting bad news, as companies like Honda and Nissan curtail investment to focus on countries where there is less insecurity. Bankers, farmworkers, even doctors and nurses in the National Health Service are wondering what the future holds."Going on for three years, people look around them and see that people are losing jobs, companies planning to move staff. It's been three years of constant instability," said Cooper, an expert on workplace issues.That frustration recently spilled into the streets, with hundreds of thousands marching on Parliament to demand that the government give the people a second vote on leaving the EU.Less than a week later, after Parliament forced May to delay Britain's departure, Brexit supporters held a smaller but equally animated protest to decry politicians they said were ignoring the will of 17.4 million people who voted to leave.In the middle of this morass sit people like Elena Remigi, who runs the In Limbo Project, a Facebook forum for EU citizens living in the U.K.One recent post tries to explain what Brexit means for many expatriates by using imagery from Dante's medieval poem "Inferno," where "the straight path has been lost" in a dark forest.AdvertisementSupported byVenezuelans are not victims of a single dictatorship, but of two.By Julio BorgesMr. Borges is a Venezuelan opposition leader.BOGOTÁ, Colombia — I was a member of the opposition coalition that participated in the talks with Nicolás Maduro’s government between 2017 and 2018. For more than a year we tried to work out a deal that would put an end to the chaos deepening in Venezuela. But no solution is viable as long as the country remains tethered to Cuba. The communications minister and government representative in the talks, Jorge Rodríguez, reiterated Venezuela’s desire that it receive the same treatment as Cuba. This declaration laid bare the pretension of the regime: a dictatorship that is accepted and ultimately gets its way, like the one Raúl Castro inherited from his brother and passed on to Miguel Díaz-Canel.But Cuba is more than an inspiration and a role model for the Chavismo government. The island nation has hijacked Venezuela and is effectively holding it hostage. Important government decisions are being made in Havana, not in Caracas. The Castro regime’s tentacles extend to several Venezuelan governmental institutions, including the armed forces and the offices of immigration and health services.In a speech at the United Nations in October, the secretary general of the Organization of American States, Luis Almagro, said that at least 22,000 Cubans have infiltrated Venezuela’s government and its institutions. They have done so, he explained, holding important positions in government agencies and in the national security and intelligence services.In the past few years Mr. Maduro’s regime has moved to consolidate power and dismantle democratic institutions. In the 2015 parliamentary elections, opposition parties won a majority of the seats in the National Assembly, but Mr. Maduro stripped it of its powers. The next year, the regime illegally postponed regional elections and suspended the process of calling for a presidential referendum. In 2017, we took to the streets to protest the illegitimate sentences imposed by the Supreme Tribunal of Justice against the National Assembly, and we chose to not participate in the rigged regional elections. Civilian demonstrations against Maduro’s dictatorship that year left at least 120 people dead, thousands wounded and hundreds imprisoned. According to Foro Penal, a prominent Venezuelan human rights organization, 911 political prisoners are being held in Venezuela. In the past year, seven attempts by the military to re-establish the Constitution and our sovereignty, today partially controlled by Cuban leadership, have been aborted. More than 100 military officers have been imprisoned.In the mediated talks with the Maduro regime, conducted in the Dominican Republic, we sought to agree on conditions for presidential elections with democratic guarantees, but the regime refused an electoral process that reflected the will of the Venezuelan people. We declined to sign the agreement, and the talks dissolved on January 2018. For years the opposition has tried to negotiate with the regime to find a democratic solution to this mess. Instead, Mr. Maduro pushed on with a sham presidential election on May 20, 2018, which was not recognized by Venezuelans and many of the world’s democracies. Mr. Maduro’s approach echoes the Cuban model, where a single party rules and elections aren’t competitive.The inextricable relationship between the Castro dictatorship and the Chavista regime began 25 years ago, when Hugo Chávez visited Havana just after being released from prison. When the Berlin Wall fell in 1989 and set in motion the collapse of the Soviet Union, Fidel Castro’s Cuba lost its great economic benefactor. Mr. Chávez’s rise to power in Venezuela a decade later allowed Mr. Castro to find a replacement. The relationship between the two countries was cemented between 2004 and 2014, when Venezuela experienced an oil windfall.The relationship has proved lucrative for the Cuban government. Between 40,000 and 50,000 barrels of Venezuelan oil are sent to Cuba daily, despite the fact that Venezuelan oil production has declined more than 60 percent in recent years. Venezuela’s economic subsidy reached its peak at about 12 percent of Cuba’s gross domestic product. During the boom years, around 90,000 barrels of crude oil daily, representing $9 billion annually, were sent to Cuba. Some estimate that over approximately 15 years, Venezuela has subsidized $35 billion in oil to Cuba. The country was brought further into debt when Mr. Maduro bought $440 million in foreign crude and sent it to Cuba between 2017 and 2018. The problem, therefore, is not a potential invasion of Venezuela by a foreign power; for over a decade, Cuba has been a parasite, stripping us of our resources.But unlike Cuba, we are not an island. We have land borders, and our tragedy has spread throughout the region, adding pressure to neighboring countries. To stabilize the region and restore democracy, we must cut off the authoritarian germ rooted in Cuba and Venezuela. Democracy cannot be restored until the two regimes are decoupled.Mr. Maduro has shown that he will not leave power of his own volition. Those of us who oppose his rule are not armed, nor do we seek to oust his regime violently. We have offered amnesty but it has been rejected. However, we will never accept the normalization of this de facto dictatorship. As long as Mr. Maduro remains in power there will be more deaths, prisoners, persecution and compatriots forced to migrate. The international community has exhausted its diplomatic arsenal because there is no precedent in Latin America for a situation similar to that of Venezuela’s. When it comes, Mr. Maduro’s exit will be equivalent to the fall of the Berlin Wall for the region.It is a mistake to ask those seeking democracy in Venezuela to distance themselves from their United States and Latin American allies at this juncture. They represent the only opportunity to counterbalance a regime with unlimited power and no institutional oversight, that is armed and willing to exercise violence. Democratic countries must direct pressure toward Havana as well to bring about change in Venezuela.The call of the National Assembly and the country’s acting president, Juan Guaidó, for Venezuela to stop sending oil to Cuba is a first step. Companies trading with Venezuelan oil must comply if they want to avoid secondary sanctions derived from those already imposed against our state-owned oil and gas company, P.D.V.S.A., by the United States. For its part, the Lima Group must ensure that previously agreed-upon investigations into corruption and human rights violations are carried out, which could involve citizens of its countries, as well as Venezuelans and Cubans.Finally, the international left wing must understand that Venezuelans are not victims of a single dictatorship, but of two: Mr. Maduro’s and Cuba’s. They must withdraw their solidarity and support for Nicolás Maduro.Julio Borges was president of the National Assembly of Venezuela and is Juan Guaidó’s ambassador to the Lima Group. This article was translated from the Spanish by Erin Goodman.AdvertisementSupported byI’ve traveled England trying to understand what drives the Brexit psyche.By James MeekMr. Meek is the author, most recently, of “Dreams of Leaving and Remaining.”The June 2016 Brexit referendum left Britain a divided nation. That much we know. But the referendum didn’t create division. It exposed something that was already there, latent. This was hard to see if you attended to people’s conventional political views about taxation or public spending; even the issue of immigration, by itself, wasn’t “it.” Nor was it to be found in something as vague as “feelings” or “emotions.” It lay elsewhere, in the realm of the individual political psyche, that blending of personal, family and nonacademic history, casually informed reasoning, clan prejudice, tribal loyalty and ancestor worship that forms the imaginative framework in which, as we represent it to ourselves, our lives relate to events in the wider world.In that framework, the way our representation of the past relates to our representation of the present isn’t always linear. What may seem, rationally, to be dead, gone and replaced (or to have never existed) is actually still there, immanent, or hidden, or stolen. An empire. An all-white Britain. A socialist Britain. A country that stood alone against the Nazi menace. One’s young self. A word for this is “dreaming.”The past week has laid bare the crisis in British politics. On Tuesday, Parliament for the second time voted down the Brexit deal negotiated by Prime Minister Theresa May. Two days later, the same legislators voted to request from Europe an extension beyond the March 29 Brexit deadline. How this situation resolves remains anyone’s guess. The major cause of this paralysis is the breakdown of the just-about-ruling Conservative Party — one faction prepared to compromise over Brexit, the other, a small minority in Parliament, eager to break absolutely with the European Union whatever the consequences. This makes sense only if you understand the hard-core Brexiteer minority as most in tune with the Leaver dreaming: that state of mind where it’s natural to talk about the Britons who endured the Nazi siege of the early 1940s as “we,” as if the present and the past, the dead and the living, were one and the same, bound to re-enact the slaying of a European dragon every few generations.I’ve spent a lot of time traveling in England, before and since the referendum, listening to people talk about their lives. Remainers have their own rich dreams, no less fascinating, but I spoke mainly to Leavers, since they were the disrupters. I heard many true stories and many strong opinions, but as the years went by I began to attend more and more to the hints of dreaming between the lines, in what was not said as well as what was said. I noticed three things.One was a strong sense of oppression, of being censored, and an attendant resentment. There were several occasions when Leavers I spoke to left pregnant gaps that could only have been filled with anti-immigrant sentiments that they weren’t “allowed” to say. By no means all Leavers are racist, but I ended up with the impression that for many, casual racism is regarded as a lost patrimony; that as much as Leavers might oppose immigration, they are no less resentful of the “elites” rendering it awkward to categorize people along racial lines.Another thing I noticed was the internationalism of Leavers — internationalism with a particular flavor: the nostalgia for Ian Smith’s Rhodesia by a Norfolk farmer and member of the European Parliament from the far-right U.K. Independence Party; for the freedom to roam the North Sea without engaging with other littoral countries, from Grimsby fishermen; the indignation, from an ex-chocolate factory worker and U.K.I.P. member in the West Country, that young Britons who want to study abroad “have to” go to Europe (they don’t, but let that pass) when they should be going to Australian universities instead.The third thing was the preoccupation with the state as defender of its people. This was literal — U.K.I.P. fliers boasting of how many extra aircraft carriers they would build in government — but also figurative, that it was the British government’s job to defend native Britons against immigrants; foreign competition; greedy capitalists; and, through the National Health Service, illness.I used to be skeptical of the idea that Britain hadn’t come to terms with the loss of its empire. It was such a long time ago, and not a single one of the many Leavers I’ve had hours of conversations with over the years has explicitly expressed wanting it back. How could you? It would be ridiculous.I believe now that a subliminal empire does persist in the dreaming of a large number of Britons, hinted at in a longing for the return of guilt-free racial categorization, in the idea that my country can be both globally open and privileged in an international trading system where it can somehow turn the rules to its advantage, in the idea of a safe white core protected from the dark hordes beyond by a mighty armed force.How could this dreaming have survived so long after the fall of the actual empire? One answer may lie in the matchless political skills of Margaret Thatcher. She achieved the extraordinary feat of turning into political orthodoxy a plainly contradictory credo, that nationalism and borderless capitalism could easily coexist. The reality of the new Britain has been a shrunken welfare state, a country ruthlessly exposed to global free-market competition. The blindness of Thatcherism’s supporters has been to accept it as the patriotic solution to the globalism it enabled.This idea, which begins to make sense only if your country happens to control a global empire, came from someone whose childhood dream was to be an official in the Indian Civil Service. It has been orthodoxy for four decades, not just in her own party but for a time, at least, in the main opposition. The bizarre and already disproved notion that the global free market might work as an avatar of Britain’s imperial power lies at the heart of the die-hard Brexit psyche. Propagating it was Mrs. Thatcher’s personal success, and that success, as we can now see, was her great failure.James Meek is a novelist and journalist. His most recent book is “Dreams of Leaving and Remaining.” AdvertisementSupported byAll the debate has come up against a stubborn fact: Brexit is damaging to the British national interest.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistA democracy that cannot change its mind is not a democracy. The people may do that when presented with the whole picture after seeing only a partial or distorted one.It has taken more than 30 months to shift from “Fantasy Brexit” to “Reality Brexit.” The difference, after vitriolic debate that has consumed British politics virtually to the exclusion of all else, is stark.The first was Britain’s 2016 vote, fueled by lies, to leave the European Union, trumpets blaring. The second, after a crash course in the facts of what membership brings for Britain, came Tuesday in the form of the crushing defeat by a 432-to-202 parliamentary vote of Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for British withdrawal on March 29.This, of course, was not a vote to remain in the European Union after all. It reflected anger across ideological lines that united Conservative lawmakers who want a complete British break from Europe and representatives of other parties who want to remain in the 28-nation union. Above all, it reflected complete disarray, the incapacity of May or anyone to come up with an acceptable compromise deal to accomplish something so inherently undesirable as to defy prettification.The vote, the most overwhelming defeat for a prime minister in recent British history, makes it more likely that the March 29 deadline will not be met. It also makes it more likely, if not yet probable, that a second referendum will be held.As Timothy Garton Ash, the British historian and author, tweeted from Parliament: “This increases chances of #peoplesvote and Britain remaining where it belongs … in Europe.”Resistance to a second vote is ferocious. We are told it would split Britain in two for generations, leave blood on the streets, render the expression of the people’s will meaningless, and even destroy British democracy.But Britain is split one way or another and not about to heal. It voted in 2016 on make-believe shamelessly peddled by the likes of the former foreign secretary Boris Johnson. At stake is the country’s direction for decades to come. It’s worth voting on the facts, not some post-truth phantasmagoria, of a British exit. The unicorn of little English dreams turned out to be nonexistent. Recent polls suggest that British citizens now favor a second vote and that, if held, the decision to leave would likely be overturned.Other union countries, including Denmark and Ireland, have voted twice on European Union treaties and reversed the initial outcome. They are still thriving democracies, as far as anyone can tell. People change their minds and survive.The road from here to a second vote is no straight line but its trajectory is at least discernible.Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour Party leader, has tabled a vote of no confidence in May’s government. If passed, this would almost certainly trigger a general election, but the Conservative majority is likely to rally around May to prevent that. Then, later this week, the parliamentary maneuvering will begin under a 10-week deadline to March 29.The backdrop to the maneuvering is this. The European Union has said the only deal is the one May tabled. That deal was a fudge in extremis leaving Britain inside the European single market until a new trade relationship is worked out; it reflected May’s recognition that a no-deal Brexit would be an economic disaster. This compromise, in turn, infuriated many in her Conservative Party. Two Brexit secretaries quit last year over the agreement negotiations.The bill for the divorce, which Britain agreed to under May’s rejected plan, would be about $50 billion, or about eight of Donald Trump’s walls.Corbyn’s Labour Party, but not Corbyn himself, favors staying in the European Union; presumably Corbyn will eventually come around, in the absence of any viable alternative.Britain is a parliamentary democracy. As Hugo Dixon, the deputy chair of the People’s Vote, a grass-roots movement for a second referendum, wrote in the French daily Le Monde: “Parliament will need to pass a new law to authorize this referendum. It can do this either the easy way, with prime minister’s support; or the hard way, by forcing it through against her wishes.”Dixon told me that a “Remain” campaign in a second referendum would need to focus on the real issues that caused the Brexit vote: immigration, the areas of Britain starved of investment and left behind, a deficient National Health Service. None of these problematic issues were caused by the European Union. “In fact,” he said, “they are best addressed in Europe, with an economy given a boost by a decision to remain and a political agenda no longer consumed by Brexit.”There are no good solutions to the current impasse but a second referendum is the least bad. All the debate has come up against a stubborn fact: Brexit is damaging to the British national interest. No deal can make it look good. May tried and failed. The British, and particularly British youth, deserve the right to determine their long-term future on the basis of reality.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — A federal court issued a nationwide injunction on Monday that prevents the Trump administration from interfering with women’s access to free birth control guaranteed under the Affordable Care Act.The decision, by Judge Wendy Beetlestone of the Federal District Court in Philadelphia, extends a losing streak for President Trump, who has repeatedly been set back in his efforts to allow employers to deny insurance coverage of contraceptives to which the employers object on religious or moral grounds.The rules were scheduled to take effect on Monday. The states of Pennsylvania and New Jersey challenged the rules before Judge Beetlestone, saying they would have to shoulder much of the burden of providing contraceptives to women who lost coverage under the Trump administration’s rules.“The states’ harm is not merely speculative; it is actual and imminent,” Judge Beetlestone wrote. “The final rules estimate that at least 70,500 women will lose coverage.”The Trump administration argued that the states had not identified anyone who had lost coverage under the rules. Judge Beetlestone replied: “There is no need to wait for the ax to fall before an injunction is appropriate, particularly where defendants have estimated that it is about to fall on thousands of women — and, as a corollary, on the states.”Judge Beetlestone said the final rules were likely to have harsh consequences: “numerous citizens losing contraceptive coverage, resulting in significant, direct and proprietary harm to the states in the form of increased use of state-funded contraceptive services, as well as increased costs associated with unintended pregnancies.”Her decision was issued less than 24 hours after Judge Haywood S. Gilliam Jr. of the Federal District Court in Oakland, Calif., granted a request by 13 states and the District of Columbia to block the rules in their jurisdictions.“Women who lose their entitlement to cost-free contraceptives are less likely to use an effective method, or any method at all — resulting in unintended pregnancies,” Judge Gilliam said. Moreover, he said, many of the women are likely to “turn to state programs to obtain no-cost contraceptives, at significant cost to the states.”Josh Shapiro, the attorney general of Pennsylvania, who filed the lawsuit there, welcomed the decision by Judge Beetlestone.“Today’s ruling is a victory for the health and economic independence of women in Pennsylvania and across America,” Mr. Shapiro, a Democrat, said. “Women need contraception for their health because contraception is medicine, pure and simple.”The attorney general of California, Xavier Becerra, also a Democrat, said: “The law couldn’t be clearer. Employers have no business interfering in women’s health care decisions.”President Barack Obama signed the Affordable Care Act in March 2010. One section of the law requires coverage of preventive health services and screenings for women. In August 2011, the Obama administration required employers and insurers to provide women with coverage at no cost for all methods of contraception approved by the Food and Drug Administration.For its part, the Trump administration said the contraceptive coverage mandate imposed a “substantial burden” on the exercise of religion by certain employers. The new rules, relaxing the mandate, fulfilled a campaign pledge by Mr. Trump, who said employers should not be “bullied by the federal government because of their religious beliefs.”Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, was a defendant in both cases. Caitlin Oakley, a spokeswoman for Mr. Azar, reiterated the administration’s position after the court decisions.“No American should be forced to violate his or her own conscience in order to abide by the laws and regulations governing our health care system,” Ms. Oakley said on Monday. “The final rules affirm the Trump administration’s commitment to upholding the freedoms afforded all Americans under our Constitution.”The administration said employers who had moral objections to certain forms of birth control should also be exempt from the contraceptive coverage mandate.Congress and the courts have long recognized the importance of respecting moral convictions as well as religious beliefs, the Trump administration said, and as an example it cited the exemption from military service available to certain “conscientious objectors.”Moreover, it said an early version of the First Amendment, proposed by James Madison, protected not only freedom of religion, but also “the full and equal rights of conscience.”The rulings issued in Pennsylvania and California were preliminary injunctions. The judges in both cases said the states were likely to succeed on the merits of their claims and to suffer irreparable harm in the absence of a court order.AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON — House Democrats issued subpoenas late Tuesday to three cabinet officials, in a sharp escalation of their battle over the administration’s policy of separating migrant families at the southern border.Administration officials did not immediately say if the cabinet officials — the homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen; the attorney general, William P. Barr; and the health and human services secretary, Alex M. Azar II — would comply. But Ms. Nielsen has previously refused to appear before the House Homeland Security committee to answer similar inquiries, and the Justice Department suggested Mr. Barr would not turn over documents requested by the committee.Earlier in the day, the House Oversight and Reform Committee easily passed a measure authorizing the subpoenas that called for the officials to turn over documents pertaining to the detention policies, as two Republicans — Representative Justin Amash of Michigan and Representative Chip Roy of Texas — voted with Democrats to authorize the subpoenas. Moments later, the House Judiciary Committee held its first hearing on a child separation policy that the panel’s Democratic chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, described as “indefensible,” “inhumane” and “immoral” in his opening statement.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Mr. Nadler and other Democrats complained about the pace and quality of the data administration officials had provided them before the hearings. On Monday night, administration officials sent a trove of data that committee Democrats had requested months earlier, including a report documenting hundreds of allegations of sexual abuse reported by minors at detention facilities over the past several years.More than 2,700 children were separated from their parents at the border under President Trump’s “zero tolerance” policy of prosecuting anyone caught crossing the border illegally, even those with families seeking asylum on humanitarian grounds.The subpoenas are part of a larger effort, led by Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the oversight panel, and other Democratic committee chairmen to compel public testimony on a range of issues from officials with the Departments of Homeland Security, Justice and Health and Human Services.While the subpoenas do not initially call for the secretaries to testify, congressional aides said they had not ruled out that possibility.Caitlin B. Oakley, a spokeswoman for Mr. Azar, would not say if he intended to comply. The Health and Human Services Department “understands and appreciates the important role of congressional oversight,” she said in a statement.Kerri Kupec, a spokeswoman for Mr. Barr, suggested the committee should receive the documents from the other two departments. “The documents requested by the House Oversight Committee should be obtained from the originating agencies — here, H.H.S. and D.H.S,” she said, referring to the Departments of Health and Human Services and Homeland Security. “The Department of Justice is currently representing H.H.S. and D.H.S. in litigation and the information requested was obtained in the course of that representation.”Aides to Ms. Nielsen did not immediately return requests for comment.Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, the committee’s top Republican, asked Mr. Cummings in a letter this week to reconsider the wide issuance of subpoenas.The Trump policy of prosecuting all adults crossing the border led to the practice of separating families and caring for the children in licensed facilities while trying to place them with a relative, because a previous court settlement had restricted the detention of children. The Department of Homeland Security struggled to track families and their children after the policy was put in place last spring — and did not create a comprehensive family reunification policy until a federal judge intervened.Mr. Trump eventually relented on the family separations, and a federal judge in California halted them in June. But in January, the inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services reported that thousands more families might have been separated than previously reported.Democrats, whose questions were largely ignored by the administration before they took control of the House in January, leveled their sharpest questions on Tuesday at Scott Lloyd, who until recently oversaw the Department of Health and Human Services’ refugee resettlement program, which oversees the carrying out of the policy.Mr. Lloyd spoke so softly that committee members craned over the rostrum to hear his answers. He struggled to explain why his agency initially failed to track migrant families separated as part of the policy.When Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, Democrat of Texas, asked about a report that Mr. Lloyd had instructed department staff members to stop maintaining a database used to track separated children and families, Mr. Lloyd responded by saying the report was “incorrect,” but offered no further explanation.In prepared remarks, Mr. Lloyd, an anti-abortion activist who had no prior experience administering refugee programs before being placed in his former post, laid some of the blame on the Homeland Security Department, saying that “D.H.S. had not consistently adhered” to “processes” used to identify and track migrant families.Sitting next to Mr. Lloyd at the witness table was Cmdr. Jonathan White of the United States Public Health Service Commissioned Corps, a career federal official who repeatedly warned him last year that the family separation policy could cause permanent trauma to young children.Commander White said that he raised his opposition to the policy “in every conversation we had about family separation” and that he “raised those concerns” with Mr. Lloyd’s staff and other top officials at the Department of Health and Human Services last summer, when detention facilities were overwhelmed by families detained at the border.Research showed that the policy “had very significant and lifelong psychological impacts” on the children who were detained, he added.In an extraordinary exchange, Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, asked Mr. Lloyd if he had heeded Commander White’s warnings by intensifying efforts to create a comprehensive plan for tracking and reuniting families.“I did not direct anybody to not plan,” Mr. Lloyd responded.When Ms. Jayapal asked him if he informed “anyone above you” that the detention policy could harm children, Mr. Lloyd replied, “I did not.”In another heated exchange, Commander White bristled when Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida, sharply questioned him about new data, provided by the Department of Health and Human Services to the committee late Monday, that documented thousands of allegations of sexual abuse at detention facilities overseen by the department.The report, compiled by the Justice Department, showed that there were 1,226 allegations of sexual abuse made to the Office of Refugee Resettlement at the Department of Health and Human Services in 2018, which was largely in keeping with the number of reports filed in the previous three years; 348 of them were deemed serious enough to warrant a Justice Department investigation. Fifty-six involved staff members at detention centers.“That is false!” Commander White shouted, as Mr. Deutch read the numbers.Later, he apologized for his outburst and said that the “vast majority of allegations proved to be unfounded” and that he was not aware of any accusations against staff members that were found to have merit.Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jeffery C. Mays[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Near the High Line in Manhattan, more than 250 people gathered at The Park, a restaurant, last week to hear about a Democratic mayor’s long-shot bid for the presidency.The New York City Council speaker, Corey Johnson, worked the crowd, boasting about the mayor’s accomplishments, and how he had done a “tremendous amount” to “create jobs” and move “the conversation nationally” to important issues.But the mayor in question was not Bill de Blasio, mayor of New York City, population 8.6 million. It was Pete Buttigieg, mayor of South Bend, Ind., population 102,245.Both men are considering a presidential run but only one of their potential candidacies seems to be taken seriously.Mr. Buttigieg, 37, has raised money from more than 65,000 individual donors, qualifying him to participate in the first Democratic debate in June. A recent poll of the Iowa caucus by Emerson Polling placed Mr. Buttigieg in third among Democrats.Mr. de Blasio, 57, has appeared before small crowds in early primary states such as Iowa, South Carolina and New Hampshire, and came in last in a recent Quinnipiac University poll that asked which New York politician would make the best president.“Bill de Blasio’s Embarrassing Quest for National Fame,” was the headline on a recent article in The New Republic about Mr. de Blasio’s travels to early primary states.Even in New York, Mr. Buttigieg, perhaps unsurprisingly, seemed to be the mayor of choice for a White House bid.“Mayor Pete is fresh, he’s untainted,” said Michael Zorek, 58, who attended a fund-raiser Friday for Mr. Buttigieg in Chelsea with his wife, Shelly Friedland, 53, a lawyer; the couple lives on the Upper West Side. “He has an entirely different story than any other politician in our lifetime.”Mr. Buttigieg (pronounced BOOT-edge-edge) is gay and married and a veteran of the war in Afghanistan who speaks Arabic. He gained exposure in 2017 after a failed run for chairman of the Democratic National Committee.“Mayor de Blasio’s record here is mixed,” Ms. Friedland chimed in. “I don’t think he’s terrible, but I don’t support him moving to another job.”Katie Held, 35, a tech product manager who has lived in Manhattan for four years, said Mr. Buttigieg has “East Coast values with a Midwestern knowledge.”Asked about a potential de Blasio campaign for president, Ms. Held said, “No. Stay where you are. Work on that.”Ever since Mr. de Blasio unexpectedly emerged from a clump of Democrats to become mayor in 2013, he has sought to broaden his message and profile to a national audience.Mr. de Blasio quickly achieved his signature accomplishment, universal prekindergarten, but his tenure has been marred by increased homelessness, the continued deterioration of the city’s public housing stock and scrutiny over some of his fund-raising techniques.He has even been blamed for the city’s troubled subway system although he is not in charge of it.Mike Casca, a spokesman for Mr. de Blasio, said comparing Mr. Buttigieg and Mr. de Blasio was “apples and oranges” because the mayor is not a candidate. Mr. Casca, it should be noted, previously worked for Bernie Sanders on his 2016 presidential campaign and in his Senate office, and is one of two City Hall aides helping the mayor with his presidential aspirations.Rebecca Katz, a former special adviser to Mr. de Blasio who is not currently attached to his exploratory bid, said that the mayor “has a progressive record to run on that is strong, but of all the candidates he has the busiest day job.”“Bill de Blasio put almost as many kids through pre-K last year as who live in South Bend,” she added.But there is no question that Mr. Buttigieg has generated more buzz; his recent visit to Manhattan was his third fund-raising effort in New York City.“To have an openly gay mayor to now be considered the hottest ticket in town running for president is a very, very exciting thing,” said Mr. Johnson, who is gay.Why not Mr. de Blasio?“I think Bill has accomplishments to point to like universal pre-K,” Mr. Johnson said. If Mr. de Blasio runs, “there needs to be a message that inspires people.”Mr. Johnson stressed that he has not endorsed anyone for president yet; that was also the case for Phil Walzak, a former top de Blasio adviser who attended Mr. Buttigieg’s fund-raiser at The Park.“Mayor Pete has a compelling story and message,” said Mr. Walzak, now the top spokesman for the Police Department. But he added that Mr. de Blasio “has a real record to run on.”Kenneth Sherrill, a professor emeritus of political science at Hunter College, said that there was a general sense that Mr. de Blasio “has not been terribly successful at managing New York City.”He added: “He started out very well, made good appointments, did pre-K, a major achievement, and family leave. The first six months to a year made you hungry to see what was coming next, and the answer was bupkis.”Mr. de Blasio has offered a different view of his tenure; on a recent trip to New Hampshire, he highlighted initiatives like universal prekindergarten and a push to make mental health services more broadly available as things that should become national priorities.All of these efforts are going “full steam,” the mayor said recently, in response to a question of how he would respond to New Yorkers wondering why he was in South Carolina or Iowa. The fact that Mr. Buttigieg is getting more attention will not deter him, the mayor said.“I don’t pay a whole lot of attention to what other folks do,” he said.Mr. Buttigieg also declined to speak specifically about his fellow mayor.“At a moment where the party is really trying to figure out what its future will be, the bigger the range of options, the better off we’ll be,” Mr. Buttigieg said just before leaving New York for South Carolina.Still, it was somewhat telling that Mr. Buttigieg had been introduced by Mr. Johnson, Mr. de Blasio’s City Hall colleague.“One of the most attractive qualities in politics is authenticity, and a good story and a level of enthusiasm and charisma, and I think Mayor Pete has shown that through the course of this short campaign,” Mr. Johnson said. “His message has been inspiring for people, and people at this moment in time want to be inspired.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensImmigration officials have been force-feeding a half dozen detainees who began a hunger strike to protest conditions at a processing center in Texas where they are being held, the authorities said Thursday.In a statement, Immigration and Customs Enforcement said that as of Wednesday night, 11 detainees in El Paso had refused to eat; four other individuals at different ICE detention centers across the country were also on hunger strike, officials said.Of the 11 people starving themselves in El Paso, six were being hydrated and force-fed under court orders issued by a federal judge in mid-January — about two weeks after those detainees stopped eating, ICE said. Two of the 11 people began their hunger strike on Wednesday, officials added.“The ICE Health Services Corps is medically monitoring the detainees’ health and regularly updating ICE of their medical status,” the agency’s statement said. “Efforts are being taken to protect the detainees’ health and privacy.”A lawyer for two of the immigrants on hunger strike and an advocate who said her nonprofit group had been in contact with nine of them said that those who were force-fed have had to endure pain and had bled from their noses. (Force-feeding is performed using a tube through the nose.)Many of the detainees, the lawyer and the advocate said, came to the United States seeking asylum after fleeing persecution in India. Since arriving in the United States, they have had to withstand verbal abuse from immigration officials and threats about deportation, the lawyer, Ruby Kaur, said.Ms. Kaur said those who went on hunger strike were placed in solitary confinement as punishment. One of her clients has lost between 40 and 50 pounds as a result of the strike, she said.“You’re fleeing persecution, you come to this country, and you are being tortured here as well,” she said. “The only avenue they have is to peacefully protest.”The advocate, Christina Fialho, the co-executive director of the nonprofit Freedom for Immigrants, said as many as 30 people could be on hunger strike in El Paso, a higher figure than the one ICE provided.The use of force-feeding, she said, represented an escalation in the tactics used by immigration officials on detainees.“It’s barbaric,” she added.An ICE spokeswoman did not comment directly on the allegations leveled by Ms. Kaur and Ms. Fialho. But the agency said that it does not retaliate in any way against hunger strikers and that it tells detainees about the negative health effects of not eating. Officials closely monitor the food and water intake of detainees who have been identified as being on hunger strike, they said.The Associated Press reported the hunger strikes and use of force feeding earlier this week.Since May 2015, Freedom for Immigrants has documented 1,396 people on hunger strike in 18 immigration detention facilities across the United States, Ms. Fialho said. Generally, she added, detainees starve themselves as a way to protest unsanitary and abusive conditions at their holding facilities as well as the length of their detention, which often appears to them to be indefinite.Although court orders have allowed officials to administer fluids to detainees intravenously, Ms. Fialho said she was aware of only one other instance — in Georgia in 2017 — when a court allowed someone to be force-fed at an immigration detention center. Attempts to locate the court orders referred to by ICE on Thursday were unsuccessful.Force-feeding people is an “uncomfortable practice” in which “you put in a tube through the nose, and then you pour a nutritional formula through the tube,” said Dr. Arthur Caplan, a professor of bioethics at New York University’s School of Medicine.“Putting the tube through the nose is often painful, particularly if the person is resisting,” Dr. Caplan said.People who are fed involuntarily can lose muscle mass, Dr. Caplan added, and in the Texas case, prisoners could become infection-prone.Top medical associations have condemned the practice. In a 2006 statement, the World Medical Association said “the forced feeding of hunger strikers is unethical, and is never justified.”The number of migrants asking the United States for asylum out of fear of returning to their home countries jumped nearly 70 percent in 2018 compared with 2017, according to Department of Homeland Security data released in December. And as the number of people held at ICE processing centers has swelled, the conditions at them have come under scrutiny.Last fall, the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of the Inspector General issued a 15-page “alert” after an unannounced visit to the Adelanto immigrant detention center in Southern California. Federal inspectors there found that 15 out of 20 cells they looked at had what they described as nooses made of braided bedsheets hanging from vents. The report also raised questions about inadequate medical care and “overly restrictive segregation” of the immigrants housed at the ICE processing center in Adelanto.In the meantime, the Trump administration has made several efforts to limit refugees. In November it announced new rules giving the president vast authority to deny asylum to virtually any migrant who crosses the border illegally. The Supreme Court, however, refused to allow the Trump administration to immediately enforce its new policy.Around the same time in December, the Trump administration announced that the United States would begin requiring people seeking asylum at the southwest border to wait in Mexico for a court ruling on their cases.Elisha Brown contributed reporting and Jack Begg contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam Stack, Matthew Haag and Emily S. RuebThe gunman who burst into a SunTrust Bank in Florida on Wednesday made the five women he found inside lie facedown on the floor before he shot them each in the back of the head, killing them, according to an affidavit released on Thursday. And when he was done, he called the police to tell them what he had done.On Thursday, the police released the identities of three of the five victims — four female bank employees and one female customer — and said for the first time that a sixth person inside the bank in Sebring, Fla., escaped when he heard the shooting begin around 12:30 p.m.The suspect, Zephen A. Xaver, 21, was arrested on Wednesday and charged with five counts of first-degree premeditated murder. Nathaniel Heitkamp, a friend who said in an interview that he met Mr. Xaver five years ago at a mental health facility in Indiana, said, “He had an obsession with violence.”Chief Karl Hoglund of the Sebring Police Department identified the customer who was killed as Cynthia Lee Watson, 65, and one of the employees as Marisol Lopez, 55.At a news conference later in the day, a third victim, Ana Piñon-Williams, 37, was identified by her brother-in-law, Tim Williams. He said she was a mother of seven who started working at the bank recently.“We do not know what was going on in the mind of the individual who committed this atrocious act, but we do know he was influenced by the darkness in this world,” Mr. Williams said.The police said they also did not understand why Mr. Xaver, wearing a T-shirt with an image of four scythe-wielding grim reapers on horseback, carried out the methodical killings in the small city, about 80 miles south of Orlando.Chief Hoglund said on Thursday that Mr. Xaver did not know any of the victims and had no known connection to the SunTrust branch. The chief also said there were no signs that he had intended to rob the bank or do anything there other than shoot people.“We believe it was a random act,” Chief Hoglund said. “We are still trying to establish what has occurred, the gravity and nature of why it occurred, and try to put it in a perspective that we can understand.”When officers arrived at the bank on Wednesday, they found a harrowing scene, according to the police affidavit released on Thursday.Mr. Xaver, who remained on the phone with police, was barricaded inside the bank and said he had a nine-millimeter handgun and was wearing a bulletproof vest. What followed was a standoff that ended when an armored police vehicle rammed into the bank doors, shattering their glass, video footage shows.Inside, the police found five women lying in the lobby with gunshot wounds to the backs of their heads and upper torsos, spent shell casings littered on the floor all around them. They found Mr. Xaver hiding in an office in the back of the bank, the affidavit said.The police initially said on Wednesday that the five victims were the only people in the bank at the time of the attack, but Chief Hoglund said on Thursday that a sixth person had been on the premises when Mr. Xaver opened fire.“There was another bank employee in the building at the time the incident began,” the chief said in an email. “The employee was in a back break room and heard the shots and ran out a back door and contacted law enforcement.”Relatives of the two other victims asked that their names be withheld from the public, Chief Hoglund said on Thursday, adding that he would honor those requests under a new crime victims’ law in Florida known as Marsy’s Law.The shooting on Wednesday was the latest of several high-profile deadly attacks in Florida in the last year. The authorities did not say on Thursday how Mr. Xaver had obtained a gun.At a court hearing on Thursday morning, Mr. Xaver, wearing a black-and-white jumpsuit, stood before Judge Anthony Ritenour and responded, “Yes, sir,” when asked whether he had no income or assets. The judge appointed a public defender to represent Mr. Xaver, who was being held at Highlands County Jail in Sebring, and ordered him held without bond.Mr. Xaver lived in Sebring but had spent most of his life in Plymouth, Ind., a town about 23 miles south of South Bend, Ind., according to Mr. Heitkamp. Mr. Xaver had recently trained to be a correctional officer at Avon Park Correctional Institution, a prison about 20 miles north of Sebring, said Patrick Manderfield, a spokesman for the Florida Department of Corrections.Mr. Heitkamp said he had met Mr. Xaver when they were both teenagers and patients at Michiana Behavioral Health in Plymouth. A representative at Universal Health Services, the company that operates the center, did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Thursday.Over the years, Mr. Xaver complained about being bullied at school and disliked by his family, said Mr. Heitkamp, who now works in the service industry. When Mr. Xaver got upset, Mr. Heitkamp said, he openly talked about a desire to hurt people and how he had access to guns.“This man did not hide it,” Mr. Heitkamp said.Gracelynn Williams, 20, said she became close friends with Mr. Xaver at the same facility in Plymouth several years ago.Reached through Facebook, Mrs. Williams said Mr. Xaver had struggled with suicidal and homicidal thoughts and had a strained relationship with his parents, especially with his father.“He mostly spoke about wanting to hurt himself,” she said.“Society made him a monster,’’ she said. “Unfortunately, nobody listened to him and five lives have been lost. It’s devastating.”An earlier version of this article transposed the identities of two of the people killed at a SunTrust Bank branch. Cynthia Watson was a customer and Marisol Lopez an employee.AdvertisementSupported byMustering solid evidence, two researchers have denounced the standard psychiatric guidelines for how best to wean patients from depression medications.By Benedict CareyThousands, perhaps millions, of people who try to quit antidepressant drugs experience stinging withdrawal symptoms that last for months to years: insomnia, surges of anxiety, even so-called brain zaps, sensations of electric shock in the brain. But doctors have dismissed or downplayed such symptoms, often attributing them to the recurrence of underlying mood problems.The striking contrast between the patients’ experience and their doctors’ judgment has stirred heated debate in Britain, where last year the president of the Royal College of Psychiatrists publicly denied claims of lasting withdrawal in “the vast majority of patients.” Patient-advocacy groups demanded a public retraction; psychiatrists, in the United States and abroad, came to the defense of the Royal College. Now, a pair of prominent British psychiatric researchers has broken ranks, calling the establishment’s position badly mistaken and the standard advice on withdrawal woefully inadequate. In a paper published Tuesday in Lancet Psychiatry, the authors argued that any responsible withdrawal regimen should have the patient tapering off medication over months or even years, depending on the individual, and not over four weeks, the boilerplate advice.The paper is by far the strongest research-backed denunciation of standard tapering practice by members of the profession.“I know people who stop suddenly and get no side effects,” said Dr. Mark Horowitz, a clinical research fellow at Britain’s National Health Service and University College London, and one of the paper’s authors. But many people, he said, “have to pull apart their capsules and reduce the dosage bead by bead. We provided the science to back up what they’re already doing.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The field of psychiatry has conducted few rigorous studies of antidepressant withdrawal, despite the fact that long-term prescription rates in the United States and Britain have doubled over the past decade, with similar trends in other Western countries.More than 15 million Americans have taken the medications for at least five years, a rate that has almost more than tripled since 2000, according to a New York Times analysis of federal data.Outside researchers who have studied withdrawal said the new paper was a welcome contribution. “I think what they’ve presented really reinforces what I’ve observed in clinical practice in many patients, and it’s almost identical to the tapering regimen I use,” said Dr. Dee Mangin, the chair of family medicine at McMaster University in Canada, who was not involved in the paper.Dr. Mangin, who is completing her own two-year study of Prozac withdrawal, added, “The other important thing is that it validates patients’ own reports of their experiences. It’s tremendously frustrating when patients describe a different experience than physicians expect, and don’t feel they’re being heard.”Dr. Horowitz and his co-author, Dr. David Taylor, a professor of psychopharmacology at King’s College London and a member of the South London and Maudsley N.H.S. Foundation Trust, decided to address the topic in part because of their own experiences with medication. Dr. Horowitz said he had severe withdrawal symptoms after tapering down after 15 years on antidepressants. Dr. Taylor had previously written about his own struggles trying to taper off.The two researchers began by visiting online forums in which people on antidepressants advised one another how best to withdraw. Those sites consistently recommended “micro-dosing,” reducing doses by ever smaller amounts over months or years, sometimes by removing one bead at a time from capsules.The two researchers dug into the literature and found a handful of studies that provided evidence for that method.In one 2010 study cited in the new paper, Japanese researchers found that 78 percent of people trying to taper off Paxil suffered severe withdrawal symptoms. The research team had them taper much more slowly, over an average of nine months and for as long as four years. With this regimen, only 6 percent of subjects experienced withdrawal.In another study, Dutch researchers in 2018 found that 70 percent of people who’d had trouble giving up Paxil or Effexor quit their prescriptions safely by following an extended tapering regimen, reducing their dosage by smaller and smaller increments, down to one-fortieth of the original amount. This is the regimen recommended in the new paper.Dr. Horowitz and Dr. Taylor also cited brain-imaging evidence. Antidepressants such as Paxil, Zoloft and Effexor work in part by blocking the serotonin transporter, a molecule that works in the synapses between brain cells to clear out the chemical serotonin, which is thought to help impart a sense of well-being in some people. By blocking the transporter, antidepressants prolong and enhance serotonin’s effects. But the brain-imaging studies found that inhibition of the transporter increases sharply with addition of the drug and, by extension, also drops sharply with any reduction in dosage. The standard medical advice, to reduce dosage by half — for instance, by taking a pill every other day — and end medication entirely after four weeks, does not take this into account, the two researchers argued.“Doctors have in mind that these drugs act in a linear way, that when you reduce dosage by half, it reduces the effect in the brain by a half,” Dr. Horowitz said. “It doesn’t work that way. And as a result, there’s a huge load in terms of the effect on brain receptors, and patients are being advised to come off way too quickly.”Laura Delano, executive director of Inner Compass Initiative, a nonprofit organization that runs The Withdrawal Project and focuses on helping people learn about safer psychiatric drug tapering, said: “I didn’t know about the benefits of slow tapering when I came off five meds in five months, and had a very difficult time in withdrawal.”The new paper, she added, “speaks to how hard it is to get this information into the clinical world. We laypeople have been saying this for a long time, and it’s telling that it took psychiatrists coming off meds themselves for this information to finally be heard.”Dr. Horowitz and Dr. Taylor called for more, and more careful, research to be done on withdrawal, to bring their field up to speed, and to develop withdrawal strategies tailored to individual patients and individual drugs.“I think psychiatrists are taught to learn things from textbooks and from well-conducted studies,” Dr. Horowitz said. “We don’t have many of those for withdrawal, so it makes it hard to believe it’s real. And psychiatrists spend a lot more time prescribing things than stopping them.”AdvertisementSupported byI’m an American who fought for Al Qaeda. I was captured, served time and now assist the U.S. in the war on terror. Other Western “foreign fighters” can do the same. By Bryant Neal ViñasMr. Viñas was an American foreign fighter for Al Qaeda after Sept. 11.What do we do with Westerners who fought on behalf of, or at least traveled to and joined, the Islamic State? Some like Hoda Muthana, who left college in Alabama to join the Islamic State in Syria, have expressed the desire to return to their native country.As the Islamic State loses its last safe havens in eastern Syria and policymakers on both sides of the Atlantic confront the question of what to do with the Western “foreign fighters,” I thought I could add my voice and unique experiences to the discussion.I was the first American foreign fighter for Al Qaeda after Sept. 11. I was captured in Pakistan, turned over to United States law enforcement and brought back to New York.I served time for my actions and have tried to make amends. Others can do the same and contribute to our society and the fight against Islamic radicals — and giving them that opportunity can set a powerful example for our allies and for vulnerable people across the world. Raised on Long Island and a convert to Islam, I traveled to Pakistan and Afghanistan in the fall of 2007 at age 24 because I was opposed to America’s wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and went to defend Muslim lands from the West. It gave me a purpose, and my intention was to fight and die a martyr’s death on the battlefield as a brave Muslim warrior.After joining and fighting on behalf of some local fighting groups against American forces, I ultimately joined Al Qaeda. I was captured by Pakistani authorities in 2008 in Peshawar after training for months at Al Qaeda camps and participating in some military actions; I was subsequently turned over to American law enforcement and brought back to New York.Back in America, I ultimately made the decision to turn on my former fellow jihadists and help the United States fix, find and finish Al Qaeda leadership in Afghanistan and Pakistan. I also provided actionable intelligence to more than a dozen coalition partners. Though the federal judge who sentenced me described my cooperation as “remarkable,” I spent more than eight and a half years in federal prison; surprisingly, I can now say I am a better person because of it.This is where I think I can provide some advice. According to data tracked by the George Washington University Program on Extremism, as few as 59 Americans are known to have traveled to Syria to join the Islamic State. Moreover, President Trump has said, “The United States is asking Britain, France, Germany and other European allies to take back over 800 ISIS fighters that we captured in Syria and put them on trial.”I can say with confidence that arrest, full cooperation, contrition and the promise of rehabilitation can be a viable pathway forward for those Western foreign fighters who do not have “blood on their hands” — didn’t kill any coalition forces overseas — and are willing to admit they made mistakes and are ready to atone for them in prison.I went before the American judicial system and accepted my guilt when it came to the terrorism charges (conspiracy to murder United States nationals, providing material support to Al Qaeda and providing expert advice and assistance) against me. I also expressed my deepest apologies to the court and said that I would like “to turn a bad thing into a good thing.”There are citizens from the United States, Britain, Germany and France, men and women, who joined the Islamic State because of ideological fervor, the promise of adventure, the opportunity to create an Islamic utopia and a perceived religious obligation. It may be hard to see it this way, but they can be a strategic asset for the United States and our European partners.First, like me, they may have had an “insider view” and thus intelligence on how the Islamic State works and was organized, and maybe even leads on the whereabouts of its leadership. Second, these Westerners can provide insights on how they became radicalized and turned to extremism. And third, after they have done time in prison, thought about their decisions and made some peace with themselves about the consequences, they might even be, like me, willing to speak to vulnerable youth and impart to them their hard-earned wisdom.These former “terrorists” will have the legacy as volunteers who “went there and did it” and will be able to vouch that the experience of joining the caliphate wasn’t like the vision presented in slick videos on Twitter, Facebook and YouTube. Instead, joining a Sunni jihadist group overseas is a decision that you will have to live with for the rest of your life or will most likely be a quick trip with a dead end.But they will need some hope that there is life after terrorism. My life is good evidence that there is: Approximately a year ago, coming out of prison, I was on food stamps and unemployed. I can now report that not only am I no longer on food stamps, but I have a job and am thriving in the manufacturing industry.Moreover, I now speak to small audiences about my experiences as a former Al Qaeda member with the hope of better informing intelligence and law enforcement officials and analysts about what led me down this pathway, as well as how I deradicalized and became a contributing member of American society.The United States does not have any type of prison rehabilitation and re-entry program to prepare “formers” for life afterward with mental health services, vocational training or educational programs, but maybe I, and the few others like me who have changed our lives, can be role models for these foreign fighters.The United States can serve as an example for its allies — bring back the Americans who joined the Islamic State and let the American legal system do its work. After they serve the appropriate penalty under law for their actions, the country might even end up with a new counterterrorism resource.Bryant Neal Viñas was America’s first foreign fighter for Al Qaeda after Sept. 11 and now works with a counterextremism nonprofit, Parallel Networks.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam Stack, Matt Stevens and Emily S. RuebThe police collected the DNA of male employees of a private nursing home in Arizona this week as they broadened the investigation into allegations that a woman in a vegetative state there who gave birth to a child last month had been sexually assaulted.On Wednesday, the Phoenix Police Department appealed to the community for information related to the case and said the investigation could evolve as detectives learn more about the circumstances of the woman’s pregnancy and the conception of the child.“Right now we are investigating a sexual assault,” Sgt. Tommy Thompson, a police spokesman, said at a news conference. “Wherever this investigation takes us, we are prepared to go forward with it.”The moves represented an escalation in the case, which on Monday prompted the resignation of the longtime chief executive of Hacienda HealthCare, the parent company of the nursing home. The police announced Friday that they had opened the investigation into the alleged assault.David Leibowitz, a spokesman for Hacienda Healthcare, said Tuesday that it welcomed the action by the police and had considered conducting voluntary genetic testing of its staff before company lawyers said that doing so would be illegal.“Hacienda stands committed to doing everything in our power to bring this police investigation to a quick conclusion,” the company statement said. “We will continue to cooperate with Phoenix Police and all other investigative agencies to uncover the facts in this deeply disturbing” situation.Sergeant Thompson said Wednesday that the investigation began after the authorities responded to a 911 call on Dec. 29 that reported a baby in distress at the nursing home. When they arrived, they found a baby that had been born to a woman who was “unable to move and unable to communicate.”“She was not in a position to give consent to any of this,” Sergeant Thompson said. “This was a helpless victim who was sexually assaulted.”He said that the baby had been delivered by the staff of the nursing home and that it was unclear if any staff members had known that the woman was pregnant.He said both mother and baby were recovering at a nearby hospital. The woman has not been publicly identified by the police.Court records obtained by The New York Times indicated that the victim was born in 1989 and had been at the facility since 1992, suggesting that she may have been in her current condition since the age of 3. They said she required total supervision.Medical exam results filed with the court last spring said her condition had not changed and described both her rehabilitation prognosis and chance of discharge as “poor.”It was not clear how many male employees or others the police would obtain DNA from to be tested. Sergeant Thompson said that investigators had not identified a suspect in the case but that there was “a large number of individuals that we will gather evidence from.”He said investigators had served search warrants at the nursing home to obtain records that may help identify a suspect and had also used mouth swabs to obtain DNA, which he called “one of the key evidentiary factors” in the case.In a separate development, the San Carlos Apache Tribe said in a statement on Tuesday that the woman at the center of the case is an “enrolled member” of the tribe.Speaking on behalf of the tribe, its chairman, Terry Rambler, said he was “deeply shocked and horrified.”“When you have a loved one committed to palliative care, when they are most vulnerable and dependent upon others, you trust their caretakers,” Mr. Rambler said. “It is my hope that justice will be served.”A lawyer for the woman’s family, John A. Micheaels, said in a statement on Tuesday that the baby was a boy who “has been born into a loving family and will be well cared for.”“The family obviously is outraged, traumatized and in shock by the abuse and neglect of their daughter at Hacienda HealthCare,” Mr. Micheaels said, adding that they did not wish to make a public statement.The Arizona Department of Health Services said it was aware of the allegations and would conduct an inspection of the center, which is about seven miles south of downtown Phoenix. It specializes in the care of people with intellectual disabilities and has at least 74 patient beds, according to federal records.Records posted to the Medicare website indicate that the facility received a “below average” rating from health inspectors in 2017. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services rated its quality of resident care as “much below average.”Episodes in which incapacitated patients are raped and become pregnant are not unprecedented, though they are rare.In 1996, a woman from Rochester, who had been in a coma for a decade after a car accident, gave birth to a two-pound baby boy. When her belly began swelling, workers at the care facility in Brighton, N.Y., tested her for intestinal blockages but later determined through DNA testing that she had been assaulted by a nursing assistant, who was found guilty of rape and imprisoned.Experts at the time said that was the country’s first recorded episode of a woman in a chronic vegetative state giving birth. The case drew additional attention because the parents of the woman, whose name was Kathy, chose to allow the pregnancy to continue and eventually adopted the child. Kathy died before the boy’s first birthday.New York State subsequently passed “Kathy’s Law” in 1998, which imposed stiffer penalties for health care workers found guilty of abusing patients in nursing homes.That same year, a woman in a coma at a home in Massachusetts gave birth to a baby girl prematurely and with severe brain damage. According to a report by The Associated Press at the time, the police asked for blood samples from male employees and a registered nurse’s aide was later convicted of rape and sent to prison.Matthew Haag, Margaret Kramer and Rebekah Zemansky contributed reporting. Kitty Bennett contributed research.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — A federal court has rejected President Trump’s first major effort to cut payments for prescription drugs, saying the administration went far beyond its legal authority.The Trump administration made a “drastic departure from the statutorily mandated rates” when it reduced payments to hospitals for drugs given to Medicare beneficiaries in outpatient clinics, Judge Rudolph Contreras of the Federal District Court here said in the decision, issued late last month.Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, “may not end-run Congress’s clear mandate,” the judge said.The court is still considering how to compensate hospitals for the money lost, estimated at $1.6 billion for last year. The cuts are still in effect, but the court has asked the government and hospitals to propose a remedy.At issue is a federal program that allows hospitals serving large numbers of low-income people to get discounts from drug manufacturers on certain prescription drugs, including many used to treat cancer and H.I.V./AIDS.Medicare pays for the drugs when Medicare beneficiaries receive them as outpatients at more than 1,000 hospitals that participate in the program. The Trump administration concluded that Medicare was paying hospitals much more than they spent to acquire the drugs.So federal officials cut the reimbursement rate last year — to 77.5 percent of a drug’s average sales price, from 106 percent.Hospital executives told the judge that as a result of the reductions, they would have to cut back or eliminate some services.Under the Medicare law, Judge Contreras said, federal officials have the power to “adjust” reimbursement rates. But, he said, they abused that power and “fundamentally altered the statutory scheme established by Congress for determining” reimbursement rates.Mr. Azar “may either collect the data necessary to set payment rates based on acquisition costs, or he may raise his disagreement with Congress,” but he may not circumvent the mandate of Congress, said Judge Contreras, who was appointed by President Barack Obama. The government had acknowledged that it did not know the precise amount of the difference between what hospitals were paying for the drugs and what Medicare was reimbursing them.The program, created under Section 340B of the Public Health Service Act, is commonly known as the 340B program.Caitlin Oakley, a spokeswoman for Mr. Azar, said Monday: “We are disappointed with the court’s ruling and are evaluating next steps. As the court correctly recognized, its judgment has the potential to wreak havoc on the system.”Ms. Oakley said the decision could increase costs for Medicare patients, who are generally responsible for 20 percent of the Medicare-approved amount for outpatient drugs covered by the program. Most people on Medicare have supplementary insurance, like a Medigap policy or retiree health benefits, to help pay their share of the bill.The lawsuit challenging the Medicare cuts was filed by the American Hospital Association; by two trade groups representing teaching and public hospitals; and by three providers: Henry Ford Health System, based in Detroit; Park Ridge Hospital, in Hendersonville, N.C.; and Eastern Maine Healthcare Systems, now known as Northern Light Health.Dr. Robert A. Chapman, a medical oncologist at Henry Ford Health System, described the administration’s action as an example of “reverse Robin Hood.” Under the policy, he said, the government took money from hospitals serving large numbers of low-income people and redistributed most of it to hospitals that did not qualify for the program.When Medicare cuts its payments to hospitals, Dr. Chapman said, it tends to offset the discounts that hospitals receive from drug manufacturers.Melinda R. Hatton, a senior vice president and the general counsel of the American Hospital Association, said the court was “holding the administration’s feet to the fire to comply with the law.” Hospitals use savings from the program to pay for myriad services in low-income communities, she said.In a speech in May in the Rose Garden, Mr. Trump announced what he called “the most sweeping action in history to lower the price of prescription drugs for the American people.” He persuaded some pharmaceutical executives to roll back or postpone price increases over the summer.And at a campaign rally in October in Wisconsin, Mr. Trump said: “You will see, very soon, drug prices will go plunging downward. You wait, you watch.”But drug makers have increased prices on hundreds of products this month, provoking an angry reaction from the president.In a Twitter post over the weekend, Mr. Trump said: “Drug makers and companies are not living up to their commitments on pricing. Not being fair to the consumer, or to our Country!”Many of those commitments were carefully hedged and temporary. Pfizer, for example, said in July that it was rolling back price increases to give Mr. Trump time to work on his “blueprint to lower drug prices.”Pfizer said then that its prices would remain at the lower level until the president’s blueprint took effect or until the end of 2018, “whichever is sooner.”Members of Congress from both parties, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said they were hoping to work with Mr. Trump to rein in drug prices. But so far, Trump appointees have generally expressed more interest in unilateral administrative actions than in legislative solutions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Benjamin MuellerLONDON — The New York Times has been reporting for the last year on how nearly a decade of government austerity has refashioned British society, slashing away at budgets for policing, housing and welfare. It has also drawn a backlash in some quarters and, as Ellen Barry writes in the latest article in the series, reshaped the politics of many young people.Prime Minister Theresa May said last fall that the era of austerity is over. That is a matter of debate. And Britain’s looming departure from the European Union — Brexit, as it is known — could depress growth for years to come, meaning that budget pressures may continue far into the future. Here is a look back at the roots of austerity and what we know about its effects.It’s a campaign of budget cutting that Britain’s Conservative-led government began in 2010 in the aftermath of the global financial panic of 2008, the most crippling economic downturn since the Great Depression.The National Health Service and education were ostensibly protected, but government spending was trimmed across the rest of society: Spending was cut for the police, road maintenance, libraries, courts, prisons and housing assistance for seniors. Local governments suffered a plunge in revenue.As Peter Goodman wrote last year, austerity has made British society “less like the rest of Western Europe, with its generous social safety nets and egalitarian ethos, and more like the United States, where millions lack health care and job loss can set off a precipitous plunge in fortunes.”The austerity measures were imposed to eliminate budget deficits that ballooned to unsustainable levels in the aftermath of the financial crisis.But Conservative Party leaders also sold budget cuts as a virtue, ushering in what they called the Big Society. Diminish the role of a bloated government bureaucracy, they contended, and grass-roots organizations, charities and private companies would step to the fore, reviving communities and delivering public services more efficiently.“The truth is that the country was living beyond its means,” the then-chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, declared in outlining his budget to Parliament in 2010. “Today, we have paid the debts of a failed past, and laid the foundations for a more prosperous future.”A United Nations expert said late last year that efforts by the Conservative government to pare state spending were “entrenching high levels of poverty and inflicting unnecessary misery in one of the richest countries in the world.”Since 2010, the Conservative government has announced more than 30 billion pounds, or nearly $40 billion, in cuts to welfare payments, housing subsidies and social services, and the British leadership is in “a state of denial” about the devastation its policies have wrought, the United Nations said.The British government disputed those findings, but there are many signs that social well-being declined under austerity. The use of food banks almost doubled between 2013 and 2017. Families that receive benefits are now thousands of dollars worse off every year.Before the budget squeeze, governments led by both the Conservative and Labour parties achieved progress on childhood poverty. The number of minors living in “relative poverty” fell by roughly 800,000, to 3.5 million, between 1998 and 2012.But the trend began to reverse in 2012, the year Parliament passed the Welfare Reform Act, a central plank of austerity: Since then, about 600,000 children have fallen back into “relative poverty.” During the same period, the number of children requiring food handouts from the Trussell Trust, the country’s largest network of food banks, has more than tripled.It is not just the jobless and their families who are suffering. Roughly two-thirds of poor children have at least one parent who works, the Institute for Fiscal Studies has said.Murders and robberies, while not near American crime rates, have surged to their highest levels in a decade in England and Wales. The reasons are not entirely clear. Many police leaders have blamed cutbacks to police forces, and it is true that police staffing across England and Wales has fallen by about 20,000 officers.But other analysts said rising crime may be a knock-on effect of austerity cuts to youth and social services, as well as rising social inequality and poverty.That has forced the police to shoulder responsibility for a number of social pathologies that used to be handled by agencies that have been shrunken or eliminated altogether under austerity — adding to the burden on already stretched police forces.The Trussell Trust, a charity, did find that the use of food banks picked up much more in areas where the new system, called universal credit, was in place than in areas where it wasn’t.Announced in 2010, the universal credit system merged six separate benefits into a single payment, supposedly to simplify the claims process and to reduce benefits gradually as people earned more from work.But its introduction, by the government’s own admission, was mangled. The system forced people to wait five weeks for their first payment, a painfully long delay that threw many families into debt.The system was supposed to be fully operational two years ago, but the deadline has been extended to the end of 2023. The opposition Labour Party has called for the rollout to be stopped altogether.“People need to know that the austerity is over and that their hard work has paid off,” Mrs. May said last October, though she offered few details about how quickly public service and welfare budgets would grow.To be charitable, she was probably assuming that Britain would leave the European Union in an orderly fashion that would largely protect the economy from harsh shocks. Now, that does not seem as certain.In almost any case, however, Brexit is likely to put a damper on economic growth, cutting tax revenues. That would seem to promise tighter budgets and additional problems for the poor, especially for young people, because living costs are likely to rise and aid money from Brussels for deprived areas will dry up.And the Institute for Fiscal Studies has said the government would have to spend at least $16 billion above current projections to truly end austerity. And even that level of outlay, the group’s director told the BBC, might hardly be noticed.“We’ve had 40 billion pounds of cuts to department spending and cuts of 30 percent and 40 percent to some budget items,” the equivalent of more than $50 billion, the director, Paul Johnson, said. Even if the chancellor were to stop cutting, he added, “it’s still not going to feel great in a lot of areas.”AdvertisementSupported byI moved to Europe because I couldn’t afford to be a cancer patient in America. I’d rather have been able to stay home.By Erica RexMs. Rex is a science writer.TOURS, France — A dozen of us sit expectantly in the orthopedic surgeon’s waiting room. We’re here for follow-ups. Some, like me, have had bunions removed. Others have had hips or knees replaced. Most are older women.The copies of Paris Match and Le Monde on the table are at least six months old. The only artwork is a framed print of Claude Monet’s “Poppy Fields Near Argenteuil.” Since I’m only two weeks out from surgery and can’t drive, I came by taxi. The fare was underwritten by the French social security system, known familiarly as la Sécu, which also provides health insurance for all residents.The woman seated opposite me tells me she’s on her second bunion surgery. Her doctor, a top orthopedic surgeon, charges more than the normal Sécu compensation, as do many specialists. Most French people purchase a supplementary insurance plan to cover costs not picked up by la Sécu. As a French resident and taxpayer, I have one too.Another woman is recovering from a hip replacement. Medical chat is common in French waiting rooms. If the wait is long, everyone comes to know everything about one another’s complaints.To my friends in the United States, this casual attitude seems foolish, even risky. But in France, medical privacy is irrelevant. No one will lose her job because of a lengthy convalescence. There is no possibility that pre-existing conditions will make insurance unaffordable. Unemployed people still receive treatment. Huge medical bills do not reduce ordinary citizens to a state of existential terror. The absence of unease over health care alters the texture of French experience. We get cozy in waiting rooms.A woman in her late 60s sits next to me. She fidgets and appears close to tears. She leans over and asks in a low voice how long it has been since my surgery. She’s wearing the orthopedic boot, but unlike the rest of us bunion ladies, she’s still using crutches. She tells me she had surgery four weeks ago and believes something is wrong.The woman across from me leans forward.“Que s'est-il passé?” What happened? My neighbor describes a “sensation de craquement” — the feeling that the bones in her foot are crunching when she puts weight on it.Three other women reassure her: The bone crunching is normal. Those bones had to be broken and realigned to reshape her foot. Yes, but the physical therapist told her that the doctor had botched something. Now she’s frightened. The therapist was completely wrong, we tell her. She seems relieved, but grows worried again when she realizes she should have restarted physical therapy sessions a month ago.Then the doctor appears and calls the woman’s name. Even rock-star orthopedists here don’t have nurses helping them in their offices. The doctor changes his own examining table paper. His staff consists of two foul-tempered office assistants who make appointments, take payments and hand out prescriptions.The woman picks up her crutches. He raises his hands in question. The crutches? Still? She fights back tears. We reassure her it will be fine. She limps after him into the examining room, dragging the crutches in one hand.I am an accidental European. I developed breast cancer in 2009. With no continuing medical coverage in the United States, and in desperate need of it, I moved to Britain. Under the sponsorship of an acquaintance, I was granted “indefinite leave to remain” and received care through the National Health Service. When I moved to France four years ago, the French system quickly took over covering me.It has taken me nine years to grow accustomed to the idea that my health care won’t suddenly evaporate at the whim of a new government. Doctors here often ask how I landed in Europe. When I tell them, they shake their heads. American values are deranged, they say.Sometimes I encounter Americans for whom visiting France is like a trip to Disneyland, only with foie gras, and they’ll ask about medical care.One such visitor, on learning I have a “carte vitale,” a social security card, asked, “How did you score that?” as if health insurance was like box seats at a Yankees-Red Sox game.I don’t live in the promotional brochure version of France those Americans are touring. France for me was not a vacation selection. Moving to Europe was a choice weighed against other, grimmer options for health care, which included the strong possibility of being bankrupted by cancer treatment and winding up at the mercy of New York State’s welfare system.In France I can rest assured I will not be refused care for any treatable condition, including a painful bunion — or yes, even a recurrence of breast cancer. All the same, I’d rather have been able to get coverage without emigrating. Too many Americans do not realize how much better off they would be if they felt safer about access to medical care. Imagine what might happen if everyone felt safe — safe enough to talk about ailments in waiting rooms.AdvertisementSupported byBy Heather MurphyShe’d been told that childbirth was going to be painful. But as the hours wore on, nothing bothered her — even without an epidural.“I could feel that my body was changing, but it didn’t hurt me,” recalled the woman, Jo Cameron, who is now 71. She likened it to “a tickle.” Later, she would tell prospective mothers, “Don’t worry, it’s not as bad as people say it is.”It was only recently — more than four decades later — that she learned her friends were not exaggerating.Rather, there was something different about the way her body experienced pain: For the most part, it didn’t.Scientists believe they now understand why. In a paper published Thursday in The British Journal of Anaesthesia, researchers attributed Ms. Cameron’s virtually pain-free life to a mutation in a previously unidentified gene. The hope, they say, is that the finding could eventually contribute to the development of a novel pain treatment. They believe this mutation may also be connected to why Ms. Cameron has felt little anxiety or fear throughout her life and why her body heals quickly.“We’ve never come across a patient like this,” said John Wood, the head of the Molecular Nociception Group at University College London.[Read more about how pain tolerance and anxiety may be connected.]Scientists have been documenting case studies of individuals who experience little or no pain for nearly 100 years. But the genetic mutation that seems to be responsible for Ms. Cameron’s virtual painlessness had not been previously identified.The study emerged amid major developments in the emotionally charged debate over how to responsibly treat pain. On Thursday, New York State filed one of the most sweeping legal cases yet against the Sackler family, which owns Purdue Pharma, the maker of the opioid OxyContin.And it was yet another reminder that we need less addictive alternatives for chronic pain, said Dr. Stephen G. Waxman, a neurologist at Yale and the author of “Chasing Men on Fire: The Story of the Search for a Pain Gene.” Dr. Waxman was not involved in the recent paper but he also studies people who have rare mutations that alter their experience of pain.“Each of these mutations teach us something, and point to a particular gene as a potential target for new and more effective pain medications,” he said.‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾Earlier reporting on medical mysteries• Congratulations, It’s Twins. The Doctor Is Perplexed.• It Looked Like a Beer Belly. It Turned Out He Had a 77-Pound Tumor.• When the Illness Is a Mystery, Patients Turn to These Detectives‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾The sequence of events that led scientists to investigate Ms. Cameron’s genes began about five years ago. She was living a happy, ordinary life on the banks of Loch Ness in Scotland with her husband, she said. After a hand operation, a doctor seemed perplexed that she was not experiencing any pain and did not want painkillers.“I guarantee I won’t need anything,” Ms. Cameron recalled telling Dr. Devjit Srivastava, a consultant in anesthesia and pain medicine at a National Health Service hospital in northern Scotland and one of the authors of the paper.A few follow-up questions revealed that Ms. Cameron was unusual. At 65, she’d needed to have her hip replaced. Because it had not caused her pain, she had not noticed anything was amiss until it was severely degenerated. Cuts, burns, fractures — these did not hurt either. In fact, it often took the smell of burning flesh or her husband identifying blood for her to notice something wrong. She also reported that eating Scotch bonnet chili peppers left only a “pleasant glow.”Dr. Srivastava referred her to University College London’s Molecular Nociception Group, a team focused on genetic approaches to understanding the biology of pain and touch. They had some clues for her. In recent decades, scientists have identified dozens of other people who process pain in unusual ways. But when Dr. James Cox, a senior lecturer with that group and another author of the new paper, inspected her genetic profile, it did not resemble that of others known to live without pain.Eventually he found what he was looking for on a gene the scientists call FAAH-OUT. All of us have this gene. But in Ms. Cameron’s, “the patient has a deletion that removes the front of the gene,” he said. Additional blood work confirmed this hypothesis, he said.Ms. Cameron said she had been shocked by the interest in her case. Until her conversation with Dr. Srivastava, pain was not something she thought about. Perhaps it helped that even though she burned and cut herself quite often, her injuries rarely left scars — something else that scientists believe is connected to the mutation.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]A number of articles have been written about parents of children with similar conditions. Many live in fear that without pain, their children won’t learn how to avoid hurting themselves. Her parents never made it an issue, she said. She suspects this may be because she inherited the mutation from her father.“I can’t remember him needing any painkillers,” she said. “I think that’s why I didn’t find it odd.”Unfortunately, because he died before the discovery, it will remain unknown whether he carried the mutation. Her mother does not share it. Neither does her daughter. Her son “has the same microdeletion in FAAH-OUT, but does not have the other mutation that confers reduced FAAH function,” Dr. Cox said.In other words, her son shares some, but not all, of her pain insensitivity.Scientists are also intrigued by Ms. Cameron’s extraordinarily low anxiety level. On an anxiety disorder questionnaire, she scored zero out of 21. She cannot recall ever having felt depressed or scared.“I am very happy,” she said.In retrospect, she sees how her genetic disposition may have aided her at work. After years as a primary-school teacher, she retrained to work with people with severe mental disabilities. Erratic, aggressive behavior never riled her, she said.But though having this mutation may sound like a dream, there are downsides. One is that she is quite forgetful; prone to losing her keys and her train of thought midsentence. The other is that she’s never felt the “adrenaline rush” that other people talk about, she said.The researchers said they would now focus on trying to better understand how FAAH-OUT works so that they can design a gene therapy or other pain intervention around it. Turning a discovery of this sort into an actual pain or anxiety treatment requires many steps, many years and many millions of dollars. It’s rare for a product to emerge.But it’s not unprecedented, Dr. Waxman said. As a reminder of how an individual with an unusual genetic makeup can shape the future of medicine, he pointed to statin drugs.“They were developed largely on the basis and discovery of incredibly rare families where everyone was having heart attacks in their 20s,” he said. Whether it will be Ms. Cameron’s mutation or another individual’s mutation that directs the future of painkillers, it’s too early to say.“But I’m reasonably confident that the lessons we are learning from the genes involved in pain will lead to the development of an entirely new class of pain medications,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagState investigators in Arizona are examining $3.4 million in possible Medicaid fraud at the parent company of a Phoenix nursing center where a woman in a vegetative state was raped and gave birth to a boy in December, according to court records.The inquiry into the company, Hacienda HealthCare, began in 2016, when investigators at the health agency that manages the state’s Medicaid program started asking questions about Hacienda’s organizational and accounting structure. Investigators wanted to know whether Hacienda executives improperly shifted overhead expenses in the company to a subsidiary at the same location that then overcharged the state’s Medicaid program.Investigators with the inspector general’s office of the state health agency, the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System, have told Hacienda that $3.4 million in Medicaid payments to the company, for expenses from July 2013 to June 2014, appears suspicious and potentially fraudulent.Nearly three years after the inquiry began, the state and the company are still locked in a legal battle. Hacienda officials have refused to turn over thousands of pages of internal financial documents sought by the state in multiple subpoenas, arguing that the requests are burdensome and beyond the state’s investigative scope. The state has said the investigation cannot be completed without them.In an effort to force Hacienda to comply with the subpoenas, the state health agency sued the company in 2017 in Maricopa County Superior Court. A judge ruled in the state’s favor but Hacienda appealed, which is where the case stands today in the Arizona Court of Appeals.“We can confirm that the office does have an open investigation into Hacienda related to fraud, waste and abuse,” Heidi Capriotti, a spokeswoman for the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System, said. “As part of that investigation, A.H.C.C.C.S. requested a variety of Hacienda’s financial records, and sought enforcement of its administrative subpoena when Hacienda refused to comply with the request.”Hacienda said in a statement on Friday: “At every step in the process, Hacienda has strenuously denied any and all allegations of overpayment. The company has produced a voluminous set of records to the investigating agency meant to prove that no such overpayments occurred. Most importantly, this lawsuit has nothing to do with quality of care issues.”In earlier court filings, the company said that it had used the same “cost-effective management structure” since 2001 and that this structure had been approved by independent auditors and was not questioned by state regulators until the 2016 investigation. The company said it had turned over more than 16,000 pages of documents to the Arizona Health Care Cost Containment System but had resisted the agency’s other requests.“A.H.C.C.C.S. exceeded its authority, and the superior court’s order enforcing the subpoena should be vacated,” lawyers for the company wrote in the appeal.While that investigation continues, detectives with the Phoenix Police Department recently opened a criminal investigation at a nursing home operated by Hacienda HealthCare after a 29-year-old woman who has been in a coma nearly her entire life gave birth to a boy there on Dec. 29. The two investigations have brought intense national scrutiny on Hacienda, Arizona’s largest privately operated long-term nursing company for people with developmental disabilities. People in its care have a range of intellectual and physical disabilities.In recent years, Hacienda has also been investigated by the Arizona Department of Health Services over the treatment of its patients. In 2013, the agency found that a male employee at the nursing home being investigated, the Hacienda Skilled Nursing Facility, had made sexually explicit remarks to patients, including telling a resident that his penis was erect. In 2017, investigators reported that employees freely walked in on patients while they were naked and showering.The woman at the center of the police investigation has been at Hacienda since she was 3. She cannot move on her own, cannot communicate and requires total supervision, according to health records obtained by The New York Times.The San Carlos Apache Tribe, whose reservation is about 100 miles east of Phoenix, said the woman was an “enrolled member” of the tribe. The tribe’s chairman and her mother, who was granted permanent guardianship in 2009, have not returned calls seeking comment.On Friday, the police released a frantic 911 call from the Hacienda nursing center when the woman went into labor on Dec. 29. The caller said no one knew that the woman had been pregnant. Both the mother and the baby were recovering at a Phoenix hospital, the police said this week.“She was not in a position to give consent to any of this,” Sgt. Tommy Thompson, a police spokesman, said on Wednesday. “This was a helpless victim who was sexually assaulted.”Since the Phoenix police announced their investigation a week ago, detectives have collected the DNA of male employees at Hacienda; the state dispatched health inspectors to check on the other patients there; and the company’s longtime chief executive, Bill Timmons, resigned. Over nearly three decades, Mr. Timmons had built Hacienda into a major player in long-term health care in Arizona.The company says it operates more than 40 programs through its subsidiaries, which provide services to more than 2,000 people every year. The Hacienda Skilled Nursing Facility, which is one of those subsidiaries, has at least 74 patient beds, according to federal records. Most of the subsidiaries operate out of the same property, about six miles south of downtown Phoenix, and share the same directors and executives.From 2009 to last October, Hacienda received at least $6.7 million from the state in Medicaid funding and other money, according to public records. In his position at Hacienda, Mr. Timmons was well compensated over the past decade, according to the company’s financial filings. His total pay doubled from 2008 to 2017, when he received $674,212 in salary and other compensation.But he resigned abruptly on Monday after reports of the police investigation became public, the company announced. Mr. Timmons had been at the center of the legal wrangling between Hacienda and the state, and he had fiercely defended the company’s corporate structure as legal and above board.When Mr. Timmons resigned, Gary Orman, the executive vice president of the company’s board, said Hacienda would “accept nothing less than a full accounting of this absolutely horrifying situation.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Niki KitsantonisATHENS — Greece’s decade-long economic crisis has taken a heavy toll: Hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, incomes were slashed and taxes were raised. Hopes for the future were dashed.For Anna, 68, the crisis had particularly devastating consequences. Her husband, a retired bus driver, killed himself in a park two years ago at age 66 after a series of pension cuts deepened his despair.“He kept saying, ‘I’ve worked so many years. What will I have to show for it? How are we going to live?’” said Anna, who asked that her full name not be published to protect her family’s privacy. After two years of therapy, she now volunteers to help others struggling with mental health issues.Depression and suicide rates rose alarmingly during the Greek debt crisis, health experts and studies say, as the country’s creditors imposed strict austerity measures that cut wages, increased taxes and undermined the ability of health services to respond to a crisis within a crisis.“Mental health has deteriorated significantly in Greece, with depression being particularly widespread, as a result of the economic crisis,” Dunja Mijatovic, the Council of Europe’s commissioner for human rights, said in a November report. That has led to overcrowding at psychiatric hospitals and clinics and a 40 percent increase in suicides from 2010 to 2015, the report said.For those fighting the problems on the ground, the trend does not seem to be abating. The mental health organization Klimaka reported a 30 percent rise in calls to its suicide hotline last year, and a comparable rise in visits to its day center.“The financial crisis has increased people’s vulnerability to suicide,” said Kyriakos Katsadoros, Klimaka’s director. “Some even ask about euthanasia.”Suicide rates in Greece remain relatively low for Europe, with five suicides per 100,000 people compared with a regionwide average of 15.4, according to World Health Organization data for 2016, the most recent available. The rate of increase is high, however. It spiked from 3.3 per 100,000 to 5 between 2010 to 2016.The highest annual increase came in 2015, the year strikes and social upheaval reached a climax as Greece’s leftist-led government wrangled with the country’s international creditors over the terms of a third bailout.The suicide rate then dropped in 2016 and 2017, police figures show, only to rise again in the first 10 months of 2018, according to police figures that also show that suicides among those ages 22 and under more than doubled.Many suicides in Greece go unreported because of the Orthodox Church’s reluctance to provide burial services to those who take their own lives, although the church’s stance is changing, nongovernmental organizations say.The Greek Health Ministry set up a committee of mental health experts in November to prepare awareness campaigns, as well as plans to train general practitioners to better detect depression and other mental health issues. In the meantime, the health system’s struggles to address the problem are evident.At Evangelismos, one of the capital’s largest state hospitals, dozens of patients were being treated in the corridors of the psychiatric ward during a visit in April, “an unacceptable situation,” the Council of Europe’s anti-torture committee said in a report published in June.In the summer, the hospital’s workers’ union complained to a prosecutor that the clinic was accommodating twice the maximum capacity, with foldout beds set up in corridors and in doctors’ offices.“It’s like a stable,” said Dr. Ilias Sioras, president of the union, adding that people in all states — “catatonic and psychotic” — were being treated in the same space.Dromokaiteio Psychiatric Hospital in Athens is also overcrowded, with admissions up 12.3 percent in 2017 and staff members regularly staging strikes denouncing the conditions. And at Dafni, the Attica Psychiatric Hospital, which takes only very serious cases, “the impact of the economic crisis is reflected in the admissions,” said the director, Spiridoula Kalantzi, citing a 9.6 percent increase in 2017.The Council of Europe report noted that “unemployed persons, bankrupt businessmen, or parents who have no means of taking care of or feeding their children” were among new admissions to psychiatric units, most age 40 and older with no previous signs of mental illness.The Health Ministry ran a pilot program at hospitals in Athens last year aimed at ensuring all areas of the capital have at least one psychiatric hospital or clinic operating as a walk-in center at any given time, helping admissions to “stabilize” at Dafni and Dromokaiteio last year. Three new clinics opened in Greek hospitals in 2018, the ministry said, and there are plans for 16 more.In the meantime, much of the burden falls to Greece’s three main psychiatric hospitals — Dafni, Dromokaiteio, and the Psychiatric Hospital of Thessaloniki — which in addition to providing health care fills the void left by cuts to social services.“Apart from the psychiatric cases, we have social cases, too,” said Dr. Nektarios Drakonakis of Dafni. “People come, they say, ‘I don’t have a home, I don’t have papers, I don’t have relatives, I don’t have anywhere to go.’”A 2016 law providing free access to health care for uninsured patients has been an invaluable safety net, said Ms. Kalantzi, the Dafni director.“When the delirium begins, many lose control of their finances, and then lose their insurance,” she said.But the spike in demand for psychological and psychiatric help coincided with dwindling staff levels and slashed budgets. Annual state spending on mental health was halved over 2011 and 2012, and it has been trimmed further each year since then. Austerity measures required hiring freezes, even as hundreds of workers retired.“I’m on my own, I don’t have anyone under me to help me,” said Dr. Christos Tsopelas at Dafni, adding that two doctors typically treat 35 to 40 patients, and that there was a severe shortage of nurses.A nurse at a halfway house died during a night shift recently, and 12 patients were alone until the morning, he said.Volunteers like Anna do their best to fill the gaps. Theodoros Megaloeconomou, a psychiatrist and former clinic director at Dafni, works at two centers in Athens, helping all sorts of people, many unemployed or in debt.“Many just come for the medication,” he said, noting that use of antidepressants had doubled since before the crisis.Even if the Greek government manages to address weaknesses in the health care system, health experts note that the main reasons behind the mental health crisis are very much alive.“As long as there is unemployment, insecurity and debt, the products of the financial crisis, this problem will not go away,” said Dr. Sioras, the union leader. “I fear it will get worse.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt RichtelAs commander of the coalition forces in Iraq, Maj. Gen. Walter Piatt juggled ruthless pursuit of enemies and delicate diplomacy with tribal leaders, using a trove of modern weaponry and streams of tech-generated data.But his best decisions, he said, relied on a tool as ancient as it is powerful. Maj. Gen. Piatt often began daily operations by breathing deliberately, slack-jawed, staring steadily at a palm tree.Mindfulness — the practice of using breathing techniques, similar to those in meditation, to gain focus and reduce distraction — is inching into the military in the United States and those of a handful of other nations.[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]This winter, Army infantry soldiers at Schofield Barracks in Hawaii began using mindfulness to improve shooting skills — for instance, focusing on when to pull the trigger amid chaos to avoid unnecessary civilian harm.The British Royal Navy has given mindfulness training to officers, and military leaders are rolling it out in the Army and Royal Air Force for some officers and enlisted soldiers. The New Zealand Defence Force recently adopted the technique, and military forces of the Netherlands are considering the idea, too.This week, NATO plans to hold a two-day symposium in Berlin to discuss the evidence behind the use of mindfulness in the military.A small but growing group of military officials support the techniques to heal trauma-stressed veterans, make command decisions and help soldiers in chaotic battles.“I was asked recently if my soldiers call me General Moonbeam,” said Maj. Gen. Piatt, who was director of operations for the Army and now commands its 10th Mountain Division. “There’s a stereotype this makes you soft. No, it brings you on point.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The approach, he said, is based on the work of Amishi Jha, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Miami. She is the senior author of a paper published in December about the training’s effectiveness among members of a special operations unit.The paper, in the journal Progress in Brain Research, reported that the troops who went through a monthlong training regimen that included daily practice in mindful breathing and focus techniques were better able to discern key information under chaotic circumstances and experienced increases in working memory function. The soldiers also reported making fewer cognitive errors than service members who did not use mindfulness.The findings, which build on previous research showing improvements among soldiers and professional football players trained in mindfulness, are significant in part because members of the special forces are already selected for their ability to focus. The fact that even they saw improvement speaks to the power of the training, Dr. Jha said.“They’re the best, and what they’re trying to do is the hardest,” she said.Dr. Jha has spoken to the United States Army War College and the British Parliament, and she has been a consultant to New Zealand’s Defence Force and military officials in the Netherlands. “When the special forces do something,” she said, “not only does the rest of the U.S. military pay attention, but the rest of the world’s militaries pay attention.”The science shows that techniques that focus and calm the mind allow people to perform better and make them less likely to overreact to incoming stimulation — whether a flash of movement, sound or an onslaught of information on a device.The neuroscience of mindfulness involves, in part, strengthening a part of mental capacity known as “working memory” — a short-term, moment-to-moment catalog of tasks understood by scientists to effectively hold only a few pieces of information at one time.As working memory clouds through overload, decisions become jumbled and reactions more impulsive. Breathing-induced focus lets people home in on the task at hand. But it does take practice.The recent study found that service members who train for four weeks experience significant improvement, but those who train for only two weeks do not.The mindfulness training comes as the military is exploring other options to intensify soldier focus, even the possibility of implanting computer chips into soldiers’ brains. But those potential solutions are expensive and years off.Widespread adoption of mindfulness has challenges, including creating a staff of trainers, said Commander William MacNulty, a commissioned officer in the United States Public Health Service. He helped train a special forces unit in mindfulness (the precise military branch and location are confidential). The program entailed the soldiers spending about 15 minutes each day performing recorded, guided breathing exercises.Mr. MacNulty said that about a third of the soldiers readily embraced the idea, a third engaged with curiosity, and a third seemed skeptical.Mr. MacNulty likened the benefits of practicing mindfulness to those of, say, doing push-ups. “You might not drop and do push-ups when you’re in a gunfight, but you have increased capacity,” he said. That’s true of mindfulness, he added: Mental focus “becomes a transferable skill.”In the newsmagazine of the Royal New Zealand Air Force, the military explained the rationale behind adopting mindfulness. Referring to the national rugby team, the magazine said: “The All Blacks talk about ‘red head/blue head’ — red head means being in a flustered state and blue head means being calm, centred and able to make clearheaded decisions.”Research also has shown that use of mindfulness can help soldiers overcome post-traumatic stress disorder.That has been the experience of Britain’s chief evangelist for use of mindfulness in the military, Commander Tim Boughton.Mr. Boughton, decorated for service in many combat zones, discovered when he retired from active duty in 2008 that he’d grown withdrawn and angered by the horrors he’d seen: mangled civilian bodies fused together in combat zones; deaths of 48 compatriots in battle in Iraq, Afghanistan, the Falklands, Northern Ireland; “ethnic cleansing, hand-to-hand stuff.”When he went to a psychiatrist in 2008, she broke down in tears after he described his experiences. Mr. Boughton discovered mindfulness after his own bout with PTSD, eventually becoming a trustee of the Oxford University Mindfulness Center.He now starts and ends his day with five minutes of breathing exercises. He uses the technique each time he is gripped by anxiety or panic. The traumas haven’t disappeared, he said, but he isn’t haunted by them daily. Now he can more calmly examine each terrible incident, address it and have some control over it — rather than merely reacting.“The amount of brain power it frees by not being trapped in the past or the future is incredible,” Mr. Boughton said. “The military is seeing the mass benefits of this.”Mr. Boughton has thought about whether mindfulness is anathema to conflict. “The purists would say that mindfulness was never developed for war purpose,” he said.What he means is that mindfulness is often associated with peacefulness. But, he added, the idea is to be as faithful to compassionate and humane ideals as possible given the realities of the job.Maj. Gen. Piatt underscored that point, describing one delicate diplomatic mission in Iraq that involved meeting with a local tribal leader. Before the session, he said, he meditated in front of a palm tree, and found himself extremely focused when the delicate conversation took place shortly thereafter.“I was not taking notes. I remember every word she was saying. I wasn’t forming a response, just listening,” he said. When the tribal leader finished, he said, “I talked back to her about every single point, had to concede on some. I remember the expression on her face: This is someone we can work with.”In the end, he said, mindfulness allowed him to “reduce conflict by better understanding.”“I’m not saying, be soft,” he added. “I’m saying, understand how compassion and empathy can be used for real advantages.”AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders debate whether a system of nonprofit health insurers is the best path to universal care.To the Editor:Re “A Better Path to Universal Health Care,” by Jamie Daw (Op-Ed, Feb. 21):Dr. Daw holds up the German-style system of nonprofit private health insurers as a better model for the United States than a single-payer system. While I can understand why the professor believes that a German-style system “builds more naturally on the American health insurance system,” it’s hard to believe that it would meet significantly less resistance from the insurance industry than a single-payer system.In fact, Dr. Daw actually explains why this is the case: “In an American version of this system, private insurers would have to be heavily regulated to ensure that coverage was affordable and to prevent the sort of rapid increases in premiums, deductibles and cost-sharing that have occurred over the past decade.”Does anyone really expect that private for-profit insurance companies will willingly convert to nonprofit status and submit to tough regulations?Bruce ShenitzNew YorkTo the Editor:As an American who has lived in Germany for over 40 years and who is alive but not impoverished today because of the quality of the German health care system, I can only echo Jamie Daw. Democratic candidates would do well to examine the multipayer systems of Germany, Austria and the Low Countries and not concentrate on the less efficient single-payer systems of Canada or Britain simply because they are described in English.There is a place for private insurance plans in a well-organized system. Indeed, as the German system demonstrates, those of us who earn enough to be better off with private plans can actually subsidize the care offered to the publicly insured, thus raising the quality for all patients.Steven J. ShermanMunichTo the Editor:Jamie Daw would do well to confer with Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut. He proposes opening up Medicare as just one more insurer, albeit a nonprofit one, and letting market forces play out as they will. That is, of course, a great oversimplification of the senator’s thinking, but the underlying logic is beautifully simple.Dave GlisermanOxford, Conn.To the Editor:In her plea to Americans to adopt German rather than Canadian-style health insurance, Jamie Daw observes that we Canadians spend 3 percent of our health expenditures on administrative costs while the Germans spend 5 percent. The reason is simple: We have largely eliminated private insurance and bill the national health insurance plan directly for medical and hospital care.When I had a heart attack and a double bypass operation some years ago, the only requirement was that I show my health insurance card to the hospital. Does anywhere in the United States provide the same efficiency in health care?By contrast, the German system, as described by Dr. Daw, looks like American health care-lite — easier to afford, but still afflicted with private insurers and the incredible weight of bureaucracy required to keep the system honest. Harvey G. SimmonsTorontoThe writer is emeritus professor of political science at York University.To the Editor:Jamie Daw argues we can transition from Obamacare to Germany’s universal health care system far more easily than we can persuade — whom? — to accept single payer. Poll after poll shows Americans long for a single-payer plan. But we cannot ignore the differences between a country that accepts limits on profiteering and one that celebrates any and all legal means of turning any “opportunity” into a buck.As long as health insurance companies donate to politicians, we can’t hope for a government that eliminates their profits. Without getting rid of for-profit health insurance, we cannot get the obscene expense of treating illness in this country down to manageable levels. In spite of Dr. Daw’s optimism, we cannot transition from profitability to a system based on the values associated with compassion as long as health insurance companies continue to stand between us and the care we need to thrive.Candida PughOakland, Calif.To the Editor:So let me see if I have this right: Because a German chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, came up with an inefficient way to provide universal health care almost 140 years ago, the United States should now copy his system?There are too many flaws in Jamie Daw’s case to enumerate in a short letter, but let me take just one: Dr. Daw states, “In Germany, sickness funds leverage market power to secure lower prices, coming together regionally to negotiate contracts with doctors and hospitals.” In the United States, health insurance companies — which are much larger and have much more market power than German sickness funds — have had the ability to negotiate for lower prices for the better part of a century. The result has been what we have — by far the most expensive health care system in the world.What on earth makes Dr. Daw think that, with a snap of the fingers, this already existing market power will suddenly yield a better result? Private insurance companies add an extra layer of expense that is totally unnecessary. We can do better. Wesley H. ClarkMiddlebury, Vt.The writer is an anesthesiologist.To the Editor:I am an American expat who has been living in Germany for many years and have intimate knowledge of and experience with its health care system. Jamie Daw’s essay is not representative of the realities, pitfalls and serious systemic problems that exist in the German system and do not reflect the fact that most of the population is getting substandard care. Indeed, the German system is just as bad as the American system, just with a different set of failures that need to be addressed. Stew GreenBrandscheid, GermanyTo the Editor:One important aspect of health care that Jamie Daw does not mention is the education of medical providers. The cost of medical school in Germany is a tiny fraction of the cost in the United States. Medical schools can cost as much as $75,000 per year, or $300,000 in total, for tuition, fees and living expenses. During the additional four to eight years of internship, residency and fellowship, young doctors are barely paid enough to cover basic housing and living costs. Most are not only acquiring substantial debt but also forgoing about 10 years of earning and saving.This is a huge sacrifice. We should be asking ourselves how much longer the best and brightest students will choose this career path unless the cost of medical education is not so onerous.Candace SingerPort Washington, N.Y.To the Editor:Several important features of the Bismarckian model advocated by Jamie Daw are omitted from her description of the German health insurance system. First, all of the sickness funds are, by law, not for profit; to introduce this needed feature into the American capitalist system is as radical as single payer.Second, people earning above a defined (inflation-adjusted) yearly amount of money are not required to join the sickness funds, and can either pay out of pocket or find other insurance; this group comprises about 10 percent of the working force. Third, the system operates under a gatekeeper system, in which primary care providers refer to hospital-based secondary and tertiary care providers.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer SteinhauerWASHINGTON — Three veterans killed themselves last week on Department of Veterans Affairs health care properties, barely a month after President Trump announced an aggressive task force to address the unremitting problem of veteran suicide.Mr. Trump’s executive order was a tacit acknowledgment of what the deaths rendered obvious: The department has not made a dent in stemming the approximately 20 suicide deaths every day among veterans, about one and a half times more often than those who have not served in the military, according to the most recent statistics available from the department.A 2015 measure that required officials to provide annual reviews of mental health care and suicide prevention programs has found that veterans often receive good mental health care at many Department of Veterans Affairs centers — but that has not decreased suicide rates. A relatively new program, known as the Mayor’s Challenge, that helps city and state governments reach more veterans through more public health programs via Veterans Affairs partnerships has shown some promise, but no data exists yet demonstrating suicide reductions.While the V.A. has been the public face of the issue, veterans are in many ways an amplification of the same factors that drive suicide in the broader American population: a fragmented health care system, a shortage of mental health resources, especially in rural areas, a lack of funding for suicide research and easy access to guns. All of these contribute to the drastically increased suicide rate among all Americans, which rose 33 percent from 1999 to 2017.High rates of homelessness, traumatic brain injuries, post-traumatic stress and a military culture that can be resistant to seeking help are all aggravating factors for veterans, whose rates of suicide have been the subject of numerous hearings on Capitol Hill.“We are not even at the Sputnik stage of understanding problems with mental health,” said Robert Wilkie, the secretary of veterans affairs. “I have said this is the No. 1 clinical priority that is made manifest by the president putting V.A. as the lead for this national task force.”Some programs to address veteran suicide are showing promise.A study of nine V.A. emergency rooms found 45 percent fewer suicidal behaviors among patients who received follow-up outreach after suicide attempts; as a result of this study, all V.A. medical centers have put into place the Safety Planning Intervention program.Since the department in 2017 began tracking suicides at Veterans Affairs facilities — among the most high-profile of veteran suicides — there have been more than 260 suicide attempts, 240 of which have been interrupted, department officials say.Yet about 70 percent of veterans do not regularly use the V.A., access to a federal department that may be viewed as central to suicide prevention.“The vast majority of veterans that die by suicide are not seeking services,” said Julie Cerel, a professor at the University of Kentucky and president of the American Association of Suicidology. “So the V.A.s are kind of at a loss of how to serve this group of people. Yet when they do end their lives, it becomes the responsibility of the V.A.,” in the viewpoint of critics, she said.Leadership turmoil — a consistent trait of the Trump administration — has complicated the V.A.’s attempt to address suicide. The agency’s director of its prevention office, Caitlin Thompson, resigned in 2017 after tangling with political appointees. According to a Government Accountability Office report last year, the office has essentially languished. Most notably, the office spent $57,000 of its $6.2 million media budget, and its presence on social media declined 77 percent from the levels of 2015, the report found. Lawmakers expressed outrage.Although Veterans Affairs officials blamed miscommunication at the time, Keita Franklin, the department’s new executive director of suicide prevention, said that the program had been delayed to come up with a more targeted marketing campaign, called #BeThere. It will try to “talk more specifically with targeted audiences,” she said, noting campaigns focused on 18- to 24-year-olds might focus on texting a friend in trouble while the over-60 crowd would be encouraged to have coffee. Some advertisements would be honed for women, for example, or for veterans in rural communities.Yet myriad political, structural and cultural impediments exist far beyond the administration’s walls.Many suicide experts believe that a lack of proper training in suicide prevention in the broader mental health field, hobbled by a lack of research into a matter that has stymied so many public health officials, is central to the issue.In 2017, the suicide rate in the United States reached 14 per 100,000 people, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; it is the nation’s 10th leading cause of death. Yet only $68 million is expected to be spent on suicide research this year, according to the National Institutes of Health. In comparison, breast cancer will receive about $709 million in research funding and $243 million is expected to be spent this year researching prostate cancer.“There has been tremendous research on breast cancer and AIDS, which lowered mortality rates on diseases we once thought once insurmountable,” Dr. Cerel said. “However, we have not had comparable research into suicide.”Guns are used in the majority of veteran suicides, in large part because gun ownership is high for that group. Last year, about 80 percent of suicides among veterans in Montana were by firearms, said Claire R. Oakley, the director of health promotion at RiverStone Health, a community provider attached to the Mayor’s Challenge in Billings, Mont., which has had among the highest rates of suicide in the nation.“Awareness is important but it does take funding and there is no capacity funding to do this work,” she said, noting that volunteers had filled many of the gaps.Proper storage techniques and training friends and family to know when to try to remove guns from vulnerable veterans are still lacking. Lawmakers who move to reduce gun access to suicidal veterans often face resistance.“By reducing access to firearms you see a drop right away,” said Jane Pearson, chairwoman of the Suicide Research Consortium at the National Institute of Mental Health. “We have to think of a way forward that is fair, that does not take away weapons unfairly.”Several states have enacted “extreme risk protection order” laws, which help law enforcement and family members temporarily remove guns from, or prohibit their purchases by, people who may be a threat to themselves.Perhaps most vexing is a military culture that emphasizes discipline and perseverance, which can backfire when a veteran is suicidal.“People who join the military have this sense of boot straps, ‘I can do it,’” Dr. Franklin said. “Then you become a vet and they say come in and get mental health care, and inwardly they don’t feel good doing it.”Mr. Trump’s executive order would also task multiple federal agencies — like the Agriculture Department in rural areas — to pitch in on veteran suicide prevention and to give grants to local governments to work with health care partners to better reach veterans.“There is no single cause of suicide,” Dr. Franklin said. “When we pull a thread, we see a complex situation with 25 factors playing. We can’t prevent suicide from where we sit in the V.A. by ourselves.”Allowing local governments to join with health care providers has also shown promise. The Massachusetts Coalition for Suicide Prevention, for instance, works through 10 regional coalitions to provide veterans with mental health services as well as things like entrepreneurship training.A major complication is reaching the veterans to start. Many use both V.A. and community providers; providers outside the system have varied forms of insurance coverage.“There are a lot of things the V.A. have done right,” Dr. Pearson said. “The issue is the challenge in our health care system with people jumping from one system to another.”The Mayor’s and Governor’s Challenges — which team governments with community health care providers to better reach and service veterans — show promise in connecting veterans to needed services inside and outside the Department of Veterans Affairs.Brent Arnspiger, the suicide prevention coordinator for the Michael E. DeBakey V.A. Medical Center in Houston, works with a local provider to send veterans who are not eligible for V.A. services to that provider’s facilities, and vice versa. “We have a warm handoff instead of just giving someone a phone number,” he said. “In the last three months, we have given 30 consults there,” he said of the health centers, “and they brought five to us.”Other states are eagerly embracing the same challenge. “The Commonwealth of Virginia has one of the largest populations of veterans, service members and their families in the nation,” said Carlos Hopkins, the Virginia secretary of Veterans and Defense Affairs, “which gives us a particularly keen awareness of the importance of tackling this national epidemic head on.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Jack Healy and Tyler PagerDENVER — In Georgia, a pecan farmer lost out on his chance to buy his first orchard. The local Farm Service Agency office that would have processed his loan application was shut down.In Wisconsin’s dairy country, a 55-year-old woman sat inside her new dream home, worried she would not be able to pay her mortgage. Her loan had come from an Agriculture Department program for low-income residents in rural areas, but all of the account information she needed to make her first payment was locked away in an empty government office.And in upstate New York, Pam Moore was feeding hay to her black-and-white cows at a small dairy that tottered on the brink of ruin. She and her husband had run up $350,000 in debt to keep the dairy running after 31 of their cows died of pneumonia, and their last lifeline was an emergency federal farm loan. But the money had been derailed by the government shutdown.“It has just been one thing after another, after another, after another,” Ms. Moore, 57, said.Farm country has stood by President Trump, even as farmers have strained under two years of slumping incomes and billions in losses from his trade wars. But as the government shutdown now drags into a third week, some farmers say the loss of crucial loans, payments and other services has pushed them — and their support — to a breaking point.While many rural conservatives may loathe the idea of Big Government, farmers and the federal government are welded together by dozens of programs and billions of dollars in spending.Now, farmers and farm groups say that federal crop payments have stopped flowing. Farmers cannot get federally backed operating loans to buy seed for their spring planting, or feed for their livestock. They cannot look up new government data about beef prices or soybean yields to make decisions about planting and selling their goods in an ever-changing global market.“This is real,” said Jeff Witte, president of the National Association of State Departments of Agriculture and New Mexico’s agriculture secretary. “You had farmers who were in the process of closing a loan or getting an operating loan. Now there’s nobody there to service those.”All week, Joe Schroeder has been listening to shutdown stories pouring into Farm Aid’s hotline. There was the cotton farmer who could not get disaster assistance to help him recover from Hurricane Michael. The woman in her 90s facing foreclosure on her family farm. The dairy farmer trying to make one last attempt to renegotiate her loan with the Farm Service Agency.“You cannot reach anybody,” Mr. Schroeder said.Mr. Trump is expected to address a largely friendly audience on Monday at the American Farm Bureau’s annual convention. Many farmers, including David Nunnery, 59, of Pike County, Miss., have stayed unflinchingly loyal to Mr. Trump and his demands for $5.7 billion for a border wall, even as the shutdown threatens their livelihood.“I may lose the farm, but I strongly feel we need some border security,” Mr. Nunnery said.But Davinder Singh, 41, the Georgia pecan farmer, said the border wall was not worth the price he had already paid — losing out on the chance to finally buy his own orchard instead of working other people’s land.“Why spend money on the wall?” he said. He just wanted the government to reopen — “as soon as possible.”The Agriculture Department had tried to blunt the effects by keeping local Farm Service Agency offices open through December. And it extended deadlines for farmers to apply for the administration’s $12 billion bailout for farmers hurt by Mr. Trump’s trade policies.States like Wisconsin, which lost at least 638 dairy farms last year, are particularly vulnerable.The new farm bill passed in December contained programs to help dairy farmers weather swings in the market, and to help farmers struggling with stress and depression get mental health services. But those programs cannot be put in effect during the shutdown, said Senator Tammy Baldwin, Democrat of Wisconsin.“More uncertainty and more stress,” she said. “We can’t afford to wait months and months. We need to get this moving now.”In Manitowoc County, Wis., Michael Slattery, a grain farmer, is waiting on $9,000 — money the federal government owes him under its trade bailout and a conservation program for farmers who take steps to reduce erosion and runoff from their fields.Mr. Slattery said farmers needed these funds to make big off-season purchases such as seed, chemicals and diesel as they prepared for the planting season. But he said everything had ground to a standstill. The county Farm Service Agency committee cannot meet. Mr. Slattery, who is also an economist, said he cannot get any raw data to make farming forecasts.“We’re being played the stooge,” he said.In New York’s farming communities, the shutdown is heaping additional pain onto farmers after a year of tariff losses, destructive weather and labor shortages because of the Trump administration’s immigration crackdowns.In Ovid, N.Y., it has left John Myer seething at Mr. Trump as he waits for at least $15,000 owed to him under the trade bailout. Mr. Myer needs the money to pay his property taxes, which are due by the end of January. Mr. Myer, 64, filed his paperwork before the shutdown, but said no payments were being processed.“You could hardly call it a political stunt,” said Mr. Myer, who voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016. “It’s a personal power stance because he doesn’t really care about anything, I don’t think, besides himself.”This week, as Ms. Moore, the struggling dairy farmer, sipped coffee at Sallie’s Country Kitchen on Main Street in the 2,500-person town of Nichols, she said it felt like her financial problems were closing in.In a corner booth, she spotted a neighbor who had done $147.90 of yard work and trash hauling on her farm. She did not have enough money to pay him.With little money left for food, she went to a food pantry on Thursday afternoon, picking out frozen fruits and vegetables, pasta, bread, dried beans and some onions to cook when her 9-year-old grandson visited later in the week.AdvertisementSupported byStrategies abound to end the AIDS epidemic, but expense — mostly for drugs costing up to $50,000 a year — is the inevitable obstacle.By Donald G. McNeil Jr.President Trump’s 2020 budget request of an extra $291 million to fight the spread of H.I.V., experts said on Tuesday, will not be remotely sufficient to meet the goal he announced in his State of the Union address: to nearly eliminate the AIDS epidemic in the United States within 10 years.Mr. Trump’s plan focuses on 48 counties where about half of new infections occur, and seeks to cut the rate of new infections by 90 percent — from about 40,000 a year to about 4,000. Virtually all H.I.V. experts agree that his plan is medically sound. People living with H.I.V. cannot transmit the virus if they are taking a daily triple-therapy drug cocktail. And a two-drug regimen, in a single daily pill known as PrEP, makes it almost impossible to get H.I.V., even through unprotected sex or needle use.But the plan requires a vast two-pronged attack. All Americans with H.I.V. must be found, put on antiretroviral drugs and kept on them for life; and all those at high risk of infection must be put on PrEP for as many years as they are sexually active or using drugs.The cost of doing that will be daunting. About 1.1 million Americans have the virus, and about one million are in danger of getting it. Finding, treating and keeping them all in treatment, experts estimated, could add another $25 billion a year to the $20 billion a year that the federal government, by its own estimates, already spends on H.I.V. prevention and treatment.Calculating the total price is complicated, because so many expenses are tucked into so many budgets. One government agency does vaccine research, another does public education, and many pay for medical care. Mr. Trump’s $291 million is discretionary spending; for example, it would help the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention do more testing and would assist local clinics in reaching more people at risk.But one way or another, the drugs must be paid for, and private insurers will not foot the whole bill. Many of those affected are uninsured or covered under Medicare, Medicaid, the Veterans Affairs department, the Indian Health Service, the Ryan White H.I.V./AIDS Program or other government programs.Mr. Trump’s budget request envisions giving the Ryan White program another $120 million next year — but simultaneously cutting Medicare and Medicaid by more than $2 trillion over 10 years. That’s why Mr. Trump’s attacks on Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act are “so problematic,” said Jeffrey S. Crowley, a director of the White House Office of National AIDS Policy during the Obama administration. Programs like those foot the biggest bills.Over the years, several administrations have announced plans to halt the spread of H.I.V. In 2001, the C.D.C. said it would cut new infections in half within five years. (The rate did not budge.) In 2010, President Obama laid out his strategy, updating it in 2015.The Obama administration did not estimate the strategy’s cost, Mr. Crowley said.But an analysis of it in 2017 by experts at Massachusetts General Hospital concluded that the effort would require an additional $120 billion over 20 years, and that new infections would be cut by only 40 percent during that time.By contrast, Mr. Trump’s plan envisions cutting infections by 90 percent in half that time, noted Dr. Rochelle P. Walensky, the lead author of the Mass General analysis. Mr. Trump’s plan would use PrEP to protect the uninfected, while Mr. Obama’s plan envisioned using only condoms.Because those medications are so expensive, Dr. Walensky estimated that the total additional cost of Mr. Trump’s plan could easily reach $250 billion over a decade.When antiretroviral triple therapy was adopted in 1996, it cost about $20,000 a year. Since then, the Food and Drug Administration has approved 30 antiretroviral drugs and a dozen one-pill combinations. But the price has only gone up. A typical treatment regimen is now as much as $50,000 a year. Truvada, the only pill now approved for H.I.V. prevention, is $20,000 a year.At those prices, the drug bill alone for 2.1 million people would be $75 billion a year.The next biggest item, Dr. Walensky said, would be laboratory testing. Finding most of the 1.1 million infected people in the American population of 325 million would require tens of millions of H.I.V. tests. They cost only $10 each, “but the manpower costs are not trivial,” she said. And various lab tests would cost about $325 per person per year. Doctor’s bills would also mount. Relatively healthy H.I.V. patients cost about $3,600 a year in medical expenses; sick patients needing hospitalization cost $40,000, on average.“Adherence” costs — paying case managers and counselors to track reluctant patients and keep them on their pills, which can even include personally escorting them to medical visits — add about $400 a year per patient.“That’s ballpark,” Dr. Walensky said. “It’s kind of a squirrelly figure.” A representative for the Department of Health and Human Services shown a summary of Dr. Walensky’s cost calculations declined to comment on it.Deep cuts in drug prices “would be a huge win in controlling the epidemic,” Dr. Walensky said, because those savings would cover the counseling, testing, doctor’s visits and other costs. The actual costs of making H.I.V. medications are far lower than their retail prices might suggest.Triple-therapy drug cocktails considered state-of-the-art here as recently as two years ago are now available as generics from India for as little as $72 a year. (American taxpayers buy at those prices for patients in Africa through the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.)Generic versions of Truvada are as little as $50.Even when the sky-high costs in the United States can be covered by one program or another, the paperwork baffles patients. Many, feeling overwhelmed, just drift off and never start on medication.“Every glitch is a chance for the health system to fail,” Mr. Crowley said.Only about a tenth of all Americans who should be on PrEP are on it. In a recent poll of gay men in California, 87 percent said they would take PrEP if it were free; almost 60 percent believed they could not afford it.Clinicians treating H.I.V. patients are frustrated.Dr. Leandro Mena, medical director of Open Arms Healthcare, a Mississippi clinic focused on reaching gay black men in the rural South, argued that “the U.S. should buy the license for PrEP and give it free to every person who needs it.”Legally, the government does not need to buy the license. By law, it can simply take patent licenses away, as it can driving or hunting licenses. Various federal statutes allow officials to do so in return for paying royalties or, sometimes, while paying nothing.That threat can be wielded to pressure a drug company to slash prices, said James P. Love, an expert on patients and director of Knowledge Ecology International, an advocacy group focusing on intellectual property.In 1917, the government exercised this authority against the Wright Brothers to force their company to lower the price of airplanes for the Army and Navy. Today, however, the federal government almost never uses that power. In 2001, during the anthrax scare that followed the World Trade Center attacks, Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, pressured Bayer A.G., which held the patent on Cipro, an antidote to inhaled anthrax, to sharply cut prices. Mr. Thompson threatened to seek congressional permission to import generic ciprofloxacin for the government stockpile. (Alex M. Azar II, the current secretary of health and human services, was the department’s general counsel at the time.)Additionally, government has “march-in rights” under the 1980 Bayh-Dole Act, Mr. Love said, because it paid for much of the original research on Truvada’s component drugs. Those rights allow officials to “march in” and reassign the patent to other manufacturers without compensation if the medicine is needed for government purposes. Behind the scenes, the pharmaceutical lobby is fighting to cancel march-in rights. AdvertisementSupported byAfraid to ask for a day off, or lacking adequate paid leave, some workers go years without taking a sick day.By Lela MooreThe idea of a sick day as a day of rest, recovery and no email has become increasingly alien.We reported last week that the phrase “sick day” is fast disappearing from the office vocabulary, as many workers fear making themselves unavailable, even to rest.Steven Kurutz, a reporter for the Style section, wrote that for remote workers and those in the gig economy, the shifting definition of the office “is also making the sick day somewhat passé.”Moreover, 45 percent of Americans have no paid sick leave at all, according to a 2016 study published in the journal Health Services Research.In the more than 100 comments on Mr. Kurutz’s article, readers talked about what it’s like to work while passing a kidney stone, undergoing cancer treatment and coping with other illnesses. Some managers described their insistence that sick employees stay home and rest.Here is a selection of readers’ responses. They have been lightly edited and condensed for clarity.Please use the comments to tell us what the sick policy is like at your job and how it affects your choices when you’re sick.Before I retired, I was a freelance writer. I remember a notable day when I did the tech editing for my first book, which simply had to be done. It was going to press in under a month.I was working with the editor, answering his questions, while passing a six-millimeter kidney stone, which would eventually require surgery when it did not pass.I was in significant agony, struggling to explain a complex technical topic coherently while taking pain meds. There was no “day off.” I was the subject-matter expert!When you work for yourself — and make no mistake, freelancers are business owners — you work sick or well, or the project fails.— Mary E. Tyler, Williamsburg, Va.In my company, they pooled sick time, personal time and vacation days into paid time off (P.T.O.).Since I work at home, I never take a sick day unless I am really sick and can’t even sit at my computer. Except for the very last days when my wife was in hospice, I think I’ve taken one sick day in the last 10 years.Being able to work at home and take care of her, take her to doctor’s appointments, etc., while saving my P.T.O. for when I really needed it in the weeks following her death, for our children, was very valuable.— Michael Oliver, New YorkI was sick with cancer last year and continued working remotely part time almost through my entire five weeks of radiation treatment (which was in a different city).I often felt sick, but work was the only thing that I actually had the energy to do — it was a great way to get my mind off my dire condition and a wonderful distraction. I didn’t work at all for one month. Now I’m back almost full time.I feel so grateful that I have a job with flexibility and that modern technology makes it possible to still be a valuable contributor even when one is sick for an extended period.— Tina Hilding, Moscow, IdahoI am a barista who has been going to work sick all week because we certainly don’t have such a thing as “sick days.”One day last week I felt so bad that I just couldn’t go in. I hated calling out because I knew there was no one extra to cover for me that day. And my grocery shopping will be very light for a few weeks after losing a day’s income.Thankfully, I still have health insurance through my parents (thanks, Obama!), unlike every one of my co-workers.Two of my friends at work aged out of their health insurance in the last few months and I remember them both frantically scheduling as many checkup doctors’ appointments as they could in their last month of being insured, because who knows when they’ll be able to afford it again.— Mary G. Batts, St. LouisWhen I worked those food-service jobs, I had to show up regardless of illness. Missing a shift for illness was not allowed unless you had a doctor’s note.But when your shift starts at 5:30 in the morning, getting a doctor’s note to excuse you from the shift isn’t exactly an option. And even then, that doctor’s note required a doctor’s visit, which is costly.— Jennifer C., Kansas City, Mo.Sick days were a source of anxiety for me — was I REALLY sick enough to take the chance of annoying a boss or looking like I have variable commitment?I far prefer working from home, laying down and napping a bit here and there. I’m not as productive as when I’m at 100 percent, but working from home when sick still lets me get the important stuff done versus doing nothing.— Kelly Whitaker, Golden Valley, Minn.I work at a large company, and have a team of direct reports. More often than not, when they’re sick they will contact me to say that they are staying home, but will be checking emails and doing other work. I always reply that they should take the day off and rest, and NOT work.Some employees just need their manager to tell them that it’s O.K.— Cindy Collins, San FranciscoI work in human resources and insist when an employee is sick that they stay home and sleep/rest. We will call you if we have an urgent question. Employees still check their emails, I do also, but there is no expectation that they will do any work.I firmly believe that you don’t get well by sitting at your computer all day, whether at home or work. And I won’t let a sick employee infect an entire office because they think they’re indispensable.— Joan Wyly, DenverI was unsuccessful most of the day trying to reach a colleague — phone, email. No responses after several messages. I was a little concerned, for he was quite conscientious about responding to my calls.Late in the afternoon I get a call. The caller was very apologetic. “Sorry, I couldn’t call you earlier. I am at the hospital. My wife just had a baby.”“Congratulations!” I replied. “Why are you even calling me! Please hang up. Nothing I have to say is more important than what you need to tend to.”Happily, the situation was tended to later without fallout. Some years later he has become a director at his company. Last I heard, he and the baby are doing well.— L.C. Grant, Syracuse, N.Y.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer SteinhauerWASHINGTON — Veterans who live as little as a 30-minute drive from a Veterans Affairs health care facility will instead be able to choose private care, the most significant change in rules released Wednesday as part of the Trump administration’s effort to fix years-old problems with the health system.Veterans who can prove they must drive for at least 30 minutes to a Department of Veterans Affairs facility will be allowed to seek primary care and mental health services outside the department’s system. Current law lets veterans use a private health care provider if they must travel 40 miles or more to a V.A. clinic. Measuring commuting time rather than distance will greatly open the private sector to veterans in rural and high-traffic urban areas.Supporters say the new policy, which is likely to go into effect in June, will help veterans get faster and better care. But critics fear it will prompt the erosion of the largest integrated health care system in the country as billions of dollars are redirected to private care.The goal of the new policy, officials say, is to provide veterans with easier, streamlined access to health care.“This is the most transformative piece of legislation since the G.I. Bill,” Robert Wilkie, the secretary of veterans affairs, said in a telephone interview this week. “It gets us on the road to becoming a 21st-century health care institution.”The move has been anticipated for months, after congressional lawmakers passed legislation last spring that empowered the administration to make substantial changes to veterans health care.Current law lets veterans facing a wait of 30 days or more for an appointment at their closest V.A. facility seek private care, but under the new policy, that would be reduced to 20 days, and with the goal of 14, by 2020. Veterans will also be allowed access to walk-in clinics; however, those will require co-pays for treatment after a third visit. If seeking a specialist after the new policy takes effect, veterans must prove a drive of at least 60 minutes.Taken together, the percentage of veterans eligible for what officials refer to as “community care” currently — roughly 8 percent of the seven million treated annually — would rise to between 20 and 30 percent, according to Department of Veterans Affairs officials.Lawmakers and veterans advocacy groups — which have been wary of large-scale moves into the private sector — were largely briefed about the program on Wednesday after the new policy was released. This caused some to argue that they had been blindsided, which has been a frequent complaint by Democrats and many traditional veterans advocates during the Trump administration.“While we are glad the V.A. has finally informed us of how it plans to implement the V.F.W.-supported V.A. Mission Act,” said Joseph E. Davis, a spokesman for the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, “we are disappointed the V.A. chose not to incorporate the voice of our 1.6 million members in the decision making process.”In recent years, Veterans Affairs hospitals have struggled to keep up with patient loads as service members returning from Iraq and Afghanistan — many with complex injuries and post-traumatic stress — hit the system at the same time that aging and increasingly ill older veterans made more use of it.A scandal in 2014 over hidden waiting lists at V.A. facilities sent lawmakers in search of solutions, with many Republicans favoring more use of the private sector and Democrats preferring to add doctors and medical centers to the government-run system.Congressional Republicans and the Trump administration have been greatly influenced by Concerned Veterans for America, an advocacy group with ties to the billionaire industrialist brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch, which has long championed expanding the use of private health care for veterans. Traditional veterans service organizations, which have largely opposed these changes, have had less say under Mr. Wilkie.“These proposed access standards will ensure veterans have better access to health care and will give them more choices in how they receive their care,” said Dan Caldwell, the executive director of Concerned Veterans for America. “These standards are simple and straightforward, eliminating much of the confusion created by the Veterans Choice Program and the V.A.’s other community care programs.”The legislation that was passed last spring and signed by President Trump in June, the Mission Act, increased funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs and earmarked more money for private care. It is up to Congress to beef up both pots of money each year.“I can’t imagine the V.A. being shortchanged in any way,” Mr. Wilkie said. “I can’t imagine anyone doing that.”Critics fear that private health care, which tends to have higher costs than government-provided care, will force the department to cut corners elsewhere. Mr. Trump has instructed his cabinet secretaries to cut each department’s budget, and a prior budget agreement that lifted caps on spending is set to expire soon, leading many to wonder if Veterans Affairs will be able to pay private providers and maintain its own services.A congressionally mandated report in 2016, by a panel called the Commission on Care, analyzed the cost of sending more veterans into the community for treatment and warned that unfettered access could cost well over $100 billion each year. That same commission found quality of care at the Department of Veterans Affairs to be very high, one area of agreement between department officials and those who use and advocate the system.The new standards were developed after V.A. officials studied both the military’s insurance plan, Tricare Prime, which sets a lower bar for access to private care than the department has historically had, and the Medicare Advantage program, which allows Medicare beneficiaries to buy private health insurance plans instead of using government-run fee-for-service Medicare.The Department of Veterans Affairs will remain at the center of care coordination, and the private providers — who would be paid by the department at rates roughly comparable to the Medicare program — would not be permitted to cherry-pick the healthiest patients, V.A. officials said. About 26 percent of veterans pay a co-payment, and they would have similar co-payments at private doctors.The department, however, has struggled greatly with its information technology systems in recent years, and studying those systems is now the purview of a House subcommittee. Whether the department can successfully coordinate care with myriad health care providers will be a concern that Congress will doubtlessly follow.Department officials — including Mr. Wilkie — have repeatedly insisted that the department should and probably will remain the provider of choice for most veterans, who prefer the culture of a V.A. hospital to that of the private sector. But a shrinking veteran population over all in the United States and more reliance on private providers could lead to the closings of some government hospitals, some veterans groups and members of Congress warn.Mr. Wilkie insisted that was not the goal of the new policy, and said that fears of full privatization were unfounded.“I think it’s simple: People don’t want change,” he said of such concerns. “That is a normal human reaction.”Some veterans groups have decided to wait to judge the policy until the spring as the standards continue to be tweaked.“I’ve asked people not to take a negative stance,” said Sherman Gillums Jr., the chief advocacy officer for American Veterans, or Amvets, one of the largest of the six congressionally chartered veterans service organizations. “The president asked the secretary to present a plan and now that he’s given us another step in the plan, it’s our job to help him successfully implement it.”AdvertisementSupported byA glossary for the emerging Democratic health care debate.By Margot Sanger-KatzDemocrats, the many running for president as well as energized members of Congress, are talking big about health care again. Among other things, that means brace yourself for some jargon. Here’s your neighborhood health care nerd to help define some terms. Various proposals are floating around, each of which would change the health care system in distinct ways. Some, like one from Senator Bernie Sanders, would do away with all private health insurance. Some would make small expansions in existing public programs. Some would try to cover all Americans through a mix of different insurance types.It can be mystifying when people call all of these ideas “Medicare for all,” as some in the debate have been doing. A glossary of terms could make the debate less confusing. Let’s start with the basics. Medicare is a 54-year-old program that provides health insurance for Americans 65 and older, and for a few other groups of people with particular diseases or disabilities.Traditional Medicare pays doctors and hospitals according to set prices determined by the government, and most medical providers in the United States accept it. It’s also possible to enroll in private Medicare plans that can offer additional benefits, though with a more limited set of health providers.Private plans handle Medicare drug coverage, and you can choose among options. You pay premiums each year, and you pay deductibles and co-payments when you use medical services.Because the program’s out-of-pocket spending has no limits, most Medicare beneficiaries also buy private supplemental insurance to limit those costs. That insurance doesn’t cover medical services outside the Medicare system, but it helps pay the patient’s share of the bill when a person goes to the doctor or hospital.This increasingly popular term was coined to describe a system in which all Americans, not just older ones, get health insurance through the government’s Medicare system. Mr. Sanders, who prominently featured such a plan in his 2016 presidential platform and just announced he has joined the 2020 race, uses this term a lot. His plan would both expand traditional Medicare to cover all Americans, and change the structure of the program, to cover more services and eliminate most deductibles and co-payments. So the Medicare everyone would be getting would differ in crucial ways from the Medicare older people get now.There would effectively be no private health insurance, because the new system would cover everyone and everything; duplicative coverage would be banned. That’s why Senator Kamala Harris of California, a co-sponsor of the Sanders bill and a presidential candidate, told CNN recently that she would endorse abolishing all private insurance — doing so is a key feature of the plan.But there are many other possible flavors of Medicare for all. Though no prominent politicians are currently proposing it, an expansion of the current Medicare benefits, with its current co-payments, deductibles and premiums, could also be thought of as “Medicare for all.”The idea of Medicare for all is suggestive of the health care system in Canada. There, doctors and hospitals remain private, but everyone gets insurance from the government. No one there is asked to pay any money when seeing a doctor. The Canadian health care system is even called Medicare.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Andy Mills, Clare Toeniskoetter and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Paige CowettAs the idea gains traction in mainstream circles, we look at its roots in progressive American politics.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today:archived recording 1I think “Medicare for all” is the right solution.archived recording 2I support “Medicare for all.”archived recording 3Oh, I believe that we need Medicare for all.archived recording 4We need to make sure that every American is able to get health care.archived recording 5We need to have “Medicare for all.”archived recording 6I believe we should have “Medicare for all.”archived recording 7This country will pass a “Medicare for all” single-payer health care system. [CROWD CHEERING]michael barbaro“Medicare for all.” It’s Wednesday, March 13. Margot, the 2020 Democratic primary, which is now officially underway, is very much starting to feel like the “Medicare for all” primary. Where does this idea, “Medicare for all,” come from?margot sanger-katzWell, I think it actually makes sense to go all the way back and think about the origin of Medicare. [MUSIC] This is actually an idea that has been kicking around in progressive politics for a very long time. It had a brief moment in the Progressive Era in 1910.michael barbaroMargot Sanger-Katz covers health care policy for The Times.margot sanger-katzThen, I think the next serious moment was actually in the New Deal.archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt)Two months ago, as you know, we were facing serious problems. The country was dying by inches.margot sanger-katzAnd if you think about what the F.D.R. administration was trying to do, they were trying to build a sort of basic public social safety net for people, to protect them and prevent them from falling through the cracks.archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt)First, we are giving the opportunity of employment to a quarter of a million of the unemployed.margot sanger-katzAnd health care was something that they considered including in the package of reforms at that time when they made social security and a lot of these other programs, but it was too controversial, and it actually dropped out of that proposal.michael barbaroAnd why would it be controversial in the New Deal period, when it seems like the idea of government taking care of people is very much in vogue?margot sanger-katzI think the main reason why health care at that time was so controversial is because doctors were really against it. Doctors were these small business owners, people paid them directly for medical care, and they really didn’t want the government getting involved in their business and, perhaps, making it harder for them to make a living.archived recording (harry truman)We are rightly proud of the high standards of medical care we know how to provide in the United States.margot sanger-katzSo the next American president to really make a go at this was Harry Truman —archived recording (harry truman)The fact is, however, that most of our people cannot afford to pay for the care they need.margot sanger-katz— who wanted to create a universal health care program.archived recording (harry truman)Our ultimate aim must be a comprehensive insurance system to protect all our people equally against insecurity and ill health.margot sanger-katzAnd again, he really was stopped.archived recording (john f. kennedy)I believe the epic in which we’re engaged is worth the time and effort of all of us.margot sanger-katzThen, J.F.K. made a big move to try to expand government health insurance, at least for the elderly.archived recording (john f. kennedy)This is a campaign to help people meet their responsibility.margot sanger-katzThere was a view that while health insurance was starting to become available as a way for working people to protect themselves, that once you got old and you didn’t have a job that came with insurance and you started to get sick — that no one wanted to sell you insurance. And so he proposed this idea of having a health care program that would be financed by payroll taxes like social security, but he couldn’t get it through.archived recording (lyndon johnson)No longer will older Americans be denied the healing miracle of modern medicine.margot sanger-katzIt was only when Lyndon Johnson became president afterwards and after the Democrats took big majorities of Congress —archived recording (lyndon johnson)No longer will illness crush and destroy the savings that they have so carefully put away over a lifetime.margot sanger-katz— that they were finally able to pass legislation that established the program that we now call Medicare.archived recording (lyndon johnson)And no longer will this nation refuse the hand of justice to those who have given a lifetime of service and wisdom and labor to the progress of this progressive country. [MUSIC]michael barbaroAnd what was Medicare at this moment when President Johnson signs it into law?margot sanger-katzThe idea was that everyone, once they turned age 65, if they had worked and paid payroll taxes, would be able to have government health insurance. They would have access to insurance that would pay for their hospital care and further visits to doctors.michael barbaroSo it took four presidents to pass a version of government-run health care. And even then, it is afforded to a narrow group of Americans.margot sanger-katzThat’s right. Around the same time that Congress passed Medicare, they also created a program called Medicaid that served the very poor in America. But essentially, there was a huge group of Americans in the middle who were left out of both programs.michael barbaroAnd why is that, Margot? Why is this idea during this period of nationalized medicine, government-run health care — why is it being limited to such small groups of Americans?margot sanger-katzI think the idea has always been pretty politically controversial. There are a couple of different threads of it. One is that industry doesn’t like it. So doctors are the kind of most vocal group in this period. But over time, we also have hospitals, and drug companies, and other parts of the health care industry that are wary of the government getting involved and maybe taking their dollars away from them. I think also, especially in this period, there is a real resistance to socialism and this idea that it’s not American to have the government providing these basic benefits, that the free market should work to do it instead.michael barbaroBut what about the people who are being covered by government-run health care programs like Medicare? Do they like it? Is it working well for them in this period — the 1960s, the 1970s?margot sanger-katzMedicare is a uniquely popular government program. People really love it. It provides them with a lot of financial security. People pay taxes into the program, so they feel like it’s an earned benefit. It’s something that they deserve. But meanwhile, everyone else is in a health insurance program that is getting a little bit more rickety. There are some people who get really great insurance through their work, but there are a lot of other people who are sort of falling through the cracks — if they’re between jobs, if they work for a company that doesn’t provide insurance. The system for people in Medicare is that everyone gets it and they all get the same thing. The system for the rest of us is, it really depends on who you are, and who you work for, and what your financial situation is.archived recording (ted kennedy)I’ve been able to receive it for myself and for my family. Just like all of us who are on the tip of the iceberg, way up high in the health care services.margot sanger-katzAnd because of that, there are a bunch of proposals over the years to try to reconsider a more national health care system.archived recording (ted kennedy)But I want every delegate at this convention to understand that as long as I’m a vote —margot sanger-katzTed Kennedy has a proposal in 1970.archived recording (ted kennedy)— and as long as I have a voice in the United States Senate, it’s going to be for that Democratic platform plank that provides decent quality health care. [CROWD CHEERING] North and south, east and west.margot sanger-katzIn the 1990s, the Clintons have an idea to try to achieve universal health care. But largely for the same reasons that we had trouble with this before — concerns about socialism, industry opposition — those proposals essentially get batted down.michael barbaroAnd so what happens next?archived recording (barack obama)Six months ago today, a big part of the Affordable Care Act kicked in.margot sanger-katzSo I would say the next big thing that happens in this timeline is that we get the Affordable Care Act in 2010.archived recording (barack obama)And millions of Americans finally had the same chance to buy quality, affordable health care, and the peace of mind that comes with it, as everybody else.margot sanger-katzThere is a brief discussion among Democrats at that time of trying to do a single-payer system, a more universal system, where everyone gets something like Medicare, but that really, even at that time, is very much a fringe view among Democrats. The consensus idea that President Obama and the Democrats in Congress want to do is something that sort of expands on our current system, where you still have a lot of different private insurers. People have a lot of choice.archived recording (barack obama)7.1 million Americans have now signed up for private insurance plans through these marketplaces. [CROWD CHEERING]margot sanger-katzAnd on the socialism side, even though this was largely a private market program, it still was susceptible to those kinds of criticisms. And we heard Republicans talking about it as a government takeover, talking about as a socialist plot.archived recordingThis has to be ripped out by its roots. This is government taking over the entire health insurance industry.margot sanger-katzBut what it tries to do is kind of patch up the holes in the existing system. And one of the ways that it does that is by vastly expanding Medicaid, that program we talked about for poor people. A lot more people get coverage through Medicaid, and then the government helps people who don’t get insurance through work with financial subsidies that allow them to buy their own insurance.michael barbaroSo with the Affordable Care Act, once again, the concept of government-run health care is proposed and ultimately tossed aside.margot sanger-katzYes and no. I think you have to see the Affordable Care Act as a sort of compromise. As a moderate proposal that expands some government health care, expands some private insurance, keeps a lot of what already exists and doesn’t take things away from people. But I also think that it did change Americans’ expectations about what the role for government was in health care, and also what kind of health care they were entitled to. So, you know, we’re moving closer to the idea that everyone should be able to have health insurance, even if they’re poor, even if they don’t get insurance through work. And there are certain guarantees in the Affordable Care Act, like the guarantee that people who have pre-existing health conditions should be able to buy insurance —michael barbaroRight.margot sanger-katz— that really didn’t exist before.michael barbaroSo even though with the Affordable Care Act we didn’t end up with government-run health care, we end up with more government in our health care, which it sounds like is beginning to change people’s perception of what the government’s role should be when it comes to medicine.margot sanger-katzExactly.archived recording 1Who are you guys here to see?archived recording 2Bernie!archived recording 1Who feels the Bern? [CROWD CHEERING] [MUSIC]margot sanger-katzAnd I think this lays the groundwork for Bernie Sanders when he comes forward with a proposal in 2016 that he calls Medicare for all.archived recording (bernie sanders)We must fight to make sure that we pass a “Medicare for all” health care system. [CROWD CHEERING]margot sanger-katzMedicare for all builds on the idea that everyone should have access to affordable health insurance, but it kind of turbo-charges that idea. “Medicare for all” says everyone gets the same health care.michael barbaroHm.archived recording (bernie sanders)I happen to believe — and I know not everybody agrees with me — I believe that health care is a right of all people.archived recordingExcuse me, where did that right come from, in your mind?archived recording (bernie sanders)Being a human being. Being a human being.margot sanger-katzSenator Sanders’s idea is that everyone in America would have access to health insurance that’s provided by the government that covers a wide array of medical services, and for which they do not have to pay any money when they go to the doctor.michael barbaroWow. And what’s the reaction to Sanders’s proposal?margot sanger-katzIt has a really mixed perception. So I think that it really speaks to some people who respond to the moral case that he’s making and to people who have really felt left behind by our current system, who are struggling with high health care costs or fighting with their insurance companies. So I think it really galvanized his campaign. It’s a central theme. Obviously, he really outperforms everyone’s expectations in the Democratic primary.michael barbaroMm-hmm.margot sanger-katzAt the same time, I think that the kinds of people who were uncomfortable with the Affordable Care Act, who were uncomfortable with some of these more universal health care systems in the past think it’s sort of a laughable idea. It’s really, really far from where we are right now, it’s far from anything that’s really been debated in a serious way in the Congress, and it would be extremely expensive to implement. It would require huge tax increases. And that is the kind of political debate that doesn’t typically get very far when it’s outside the confines of a campaign.michael barbaroSo we know Sanders loses the primary, and so his campaign ends. What happens to “Medicare for all” after that?margot sanger-katzIt’s really interesting. “Medicare for all” gets more popular than ever. So, you know, it’s not just that Sanders loses the primary to Hillary Clinton, who wants to do something much more moderate on health care, but also Hillary Clinton loses the election to Donald Trump.archived recording (donald trump)I’m going to repeal and replace your disastrous Obamacare. [CROWD CHEERING] Much cheaper, much better.margot sanger-katzSo you might think that this sort of really left-wing idea of doing a universal health care would just go away, but instead it starts to gain in popularity, and we see this in a couple of different ways. Public opinion surveys show steady and modest increases in the number of Americans who seem interested in this idea when they’re asked about it. And the other thing that happens is we start to see way more Democrats in Congress signing on to proposals like the Sanders proposal. So Sanders himself had a bill that he had brought forward in previous Congresses and, basically, no one wanted to co-sign it. And then he brought it again in 2017, and all of a sudden he had, I think, 16 co-sponsors, including lots of really ambitious Democratic senators that we expected to run for president, and we now see are running for president. And there’s a bill in the House that had been introduced year after year with very few co-sponsors, and all of a sudden, again, in 2017, we saw the majority of Democrats in the House were signing onto this bill.michael barbaroHow do you explain that shift?margot sanger-katzI definitely think that Sanders was part of it. And if you talk to him, he definitely thinks he was part of it — that he really brought this into the mainstream of our political conversation. But I think there are a couple of other factors. One is that after Trump became president, the first thing he tried to do in legislation was repeal the Affordable Care Act. And, you know, Republicans had a lot of indications that was going to be a good idea. Their voters had been telling them for years that they really didn’t like Obamacare and they wanted it to go away. But actually, that turned out to be kind of politically perilous for the Republicans.archived recordingAnd today, the president summoned G.O.P. lawmakers to the White House for the second time in less than a month, after two versions of a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare failed.margot sanger-katzThey failed multiple attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and its popularity got higher than ever. And there was kind of this boost among Democratic activists over health care — that they started to really care about the issue, and get organized, and get angry.archived recordingMany of the Republican congressmen who held town halls during this recess have heard the wrath of many of their constituents.margot sanger-katzAnd I think some of those people are bringing new energy to the single-payer moment.archived recordingIn North Dakota, congressman Kevin Cramer heard from a woman with a disabled child. She asked him not to repeal Obamacare, with her family facing bankruptcy. This is what $3.5 million looks like, and she’s two years old.margot sanger-katzAnd then the third thing that I think that happens is the Democrats are kind of on their heels. They’re not in control of Congress anymore. They’re not in control of the White House. They don’t actually have to govern. And so I think that makes them a little bit more open to something that’s more idealistic, that’s more aspirational.michael barbaroMm-hmm.margot sanger-katzWhen they’re in the minority, I think they can say, we want to tell you what our values are. We want to tell you what our dreams are and what we care about — equity, and we care about fairness. And they don’t really have to worry about the dirty little details.archived recordingWhen our congressmen took a party-line vote that would have canceled health insurance for thousands of Virginians, I knew I had to run.margot sanger-katzThat’s exactly what we saw happen in the midterms.archived recordingHealth care affects everyone. Making it into a partisan battle makes things worse.margot sanger-katzWe saw a lot of Democrats all across the country running with health care as their primary message.archived recordingI’m voting for Mikie Sherrill because I know she’ll like fight for me and my family, my daughter, and for the A.C.A.margot sanger-katzAnd it was very effective. They took over a lot of seats in the House that had previously been held by Republicans. But I think the exact message that they drew from this is a little bit mixed. I think a lot of them felt, oh, people really just want me to protect what they already have — that we have a very good message in protecting the Affordable Care Act. But some of these Democrats who won running on health care felt like this is a reason to go forward, to push further than the Affordable Care Act because the electorate really responds to this issue. And I think you can really see this now as the 2020 presidential field is starting to heat up. Senator Sanders, obviously, continues to support it. Cory Booker, the senator from New Jersey, is in favor of the Sanders proposal. Elizabeth Warren was a co-sponsor of Senator Sanders’ bill in the last Congress. But it is not universal among Democratic candidates. We saw Amy Klobuchar, a Democratic senator from Minnesota, who said, this is too aspirational. It’s too pie in the sky. We need to focus on more incremental changes that are more politically possible. They all want to make some increase for the role of government — try to have there be more health care available for more people, to make it more affordable. But there is this range from little technocratic fixes to let’s do single-payer.michael barbaroWell, let’s talk about that. What does it mean when a candidate for the Democratic presidential primary in this moment says “Medicare for all“? What are the actual proposals on the table?margot sanger-katzWho knows? I mean, we are so vague right now. I think when Bernie Sanders says “Medicare for all,” we know what he means because he talked about it in 2016 and he has a legislative proposal. I think with a lot of these other candidates, they are kind of latching onto a brand name that seems to be pretty popular with the public, that reminds them of Medicare, which a lot of people like. But we’re not in the phase of the campaign yet where we have really specific proposals that tell us exactly what it is that they want to do.michael barbaroTo the degree that Medicare for all is an actual, credible proposal like what has been offered by Senator Bernie Sanders, how practical is it? How expensive would it be to create? How disruptive would it be to the current health care system?margot sanger-katzI think it’s almost hard to underestimate how disruptive it would be. Just to give one example, right now we have private health insurance companies that cover most Americans. These are big corporations. They’re among the largest and most —michael barbaroAetna, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield.margot sanger-katzYeah. These companies would essentially be wiped out by the Sanders proposal.michael barbaroWow.margot sanger-katzThere would be no private insurance. Everyone would get their insurance directly from the government.michael barbaroAnd what about the cost?margot sanger-katzSo this would be an enormously expensive proposal. It is not necessarily expensive compared to all the ways that Americans pay for health care now. So right now, your employer, if you get employer based insurance, they pay something towards your insurance premium, you pay something towards your insurance premium. When you go to the hospital, maybe you pay a deductible. There are kind of all of these different pots that your health care dollars come from. What the “Medicare for All” plan would do is it would say, no one’s going to pay into any of those streams — the federal government is going to pay for all the medical bills, but in order to pay that, they have to collect way more money in taxes. So various estimates say it would cost more than $30 trillion to administer something like the Sanders plan. That is a lot of money. And that is so much money that you can’t just raise it by taxing the rich. You would really have to have very broad-based taxes that would reach across the income spectrum.michael barbaroSo what you have described is a pretty radical idea that would upend a huge segment of the U.S. economy. It would require major changes to the tax code. So I wonder if there’s any practical chance that this actually could get through our legislative and political process to become the U.S. health care system.margot sanger-katzSo I’m always wary of making political predictions, but it seems extremely unlikely to me right now for a couple of reasons. One is that Republicans are dead-set against this. So now we’re left with just Democrats who would have to vote for such a bill. And then you would have to imagine that they could all agree on a proposal this radical. And I don’t think that there is enough unanimity among Democrats right now on this issue. But I also think that this is a way for Democratic politicians to signal that they are signed onto a particular set of values about fairness, about affordability, about kind of all being in it together. And I think that they want to send those kind of values messages to voters, even if they’re not necessarily sending them a specific policy platform that they can deliver on. And so I think it’s a way to say, like, that’s the mountain-top goal. We’re going to get there eventually. But it’s not necessarily saying, you know, on day one, I’m going to get there right away.michael barbaroWell, what exactly does that path look like, then, from where we are in the minds of these Democratic candidates to a someday-world where “Medicare for all,” as envisioned by someone like Bernie Sanders, could ever be a reality?margot sanger-katzSo I had this really interesting and instructive experience about a year ago. I went with Bernie Sanders to Toronto, and we went on a tour of the Canadian health care system. And I would say that Canada’s system is the closest analog to what a lot of these politicians are proposing. And one thing that just really struck me about Canada is that people are all in on the values piece. There is just a real sense of kind of social solidarity around the idea that health care is a right, and everyone should have it in the country, and there shouldn’t be any restrictions, and that it should be sort of radically fair. And that just struck me culturally as so different. And the thing that I couldn’t untangle when I was in Canada is, do they have those values because they have that system, or do they have that system because they already had those values? And I think, you know, part of what will be interesting if Democrats, you know, retake power, and if they start moving us on this path towards something more like single-payer is, how hard will it be to shift those values? We see them. There definitely are people in the Democratic base who believe them deeply in their hearts, but I don’t think that most Americans feel that health care is a fundamental right and that everyone should have it. And I don’t know if that will change.michael barbaroRight. Which comes first, the values that say that health care is a right, or the national health care system that dictates that? And from everything you’ve described, something like 80 years of U.S. history suggests that there has not been an appetite for this kind of a system. So the only way it would work is if we believe, right, that the system could come first and the values would flow from it.margot sanger-katzI don’t know. I almost think that the opposite thing is probably true — that it’s really hard to imagine it being possible to pass something that would be so earth-shattering, that would make so many changes to our health care system, to our tax code, to the way that health care is delivered if we don’t have buy-in. And so I think that a real challenge for politicians around this issue is really going to be winning hearts and minds and trying to convince people that this vision of how the health care system should work is worth the disruption. The people who really believe in it really believe in it, but there are a lot of people that they will have to persuade.michael barbaroIt’s interesting. So when candidates like Bernie Sanders say “Medicare for all,” potentially, he’s actually trying to change the American culture to the point where “Medicare for all” could actually work. In other words, when he or anyone says “Medicare for all,” they’re actually calling for the cultural change required for the U.S. to get excited and adopt “Medicare for all.”margot sanger-katzMaybe. I mean, it could be that this is the only way that we’re going to get the kind of cultural change that would be required to make a policy change of this magnitude, but I also think that there are real risks here. It’s totally possible that America could engage with this idea, and we could have a big debate about it in a presidential election, and then could thoroughly reject it. And then we sort of end up with the kind of politics around health care that we’ve had for a long time, where these sort of universal health care proposals are put forward, it’s decided that they’re kind of too radical for where we are, and they get shelved again.michael barbaroHm.margot sanger-katzWhich would put us in kind of a familiar situation of having considered a big government-run health care system and saying, no, thanks.michael barbaroMargot, thank you very much. We appreciate it.margot sanger-katzI’m so happy to come on. [MUSIC]michael barbaroIn his new budget unveiled on Monday, President Trump called for $845 billion in cuts to Medicare over the next decade, setting up a 2020 presidential race in which he will seek to shrink the program, while many of his Democratic rivals propose expanding it.This one is pretty simple if you understand Medicare for all. Single-payer is a more general term used to describe a government system, typically backed by taxes, in which everyone gets health care from one insurer, run by the government. Think of Medicare for all as a brand-name single-payer plan. Some advocates also like the term “national health insurance.” These terms all describe a system in which the government pays for everyone’s health care services.Critics of single-payer are particularly fond of this term, which describes a system in which the government runs not just the financing of health care — by running an insurance company like Medicare — but also manages hospitals and employs medical providers directly. Britain’s National Health Service is an example of a socialized system. Doctors there work for the government.The United States has its own socialized system, for military veterans. Veterans get their insurance through the Department of Veterans Affairs, which owns hospitals; employs doctors, nurses and other medical professionals; and negotiates directly with pharmaceutical companies for drugs. In general a veteran couldn’t get coverage for routine care from a doctor who didn’t work directly for the V.A., but recent policy changes have started to privatize more health care for veterans.There are currently no mainstream proposals to fully socialize the United States health care system.When lawmakers were writing the Affordable Care Act, there was an extensive debate about whether it should include a public option. The idea didn’t prevail in the end, but many Democrats now want to bring it back.You can think of a public option as something of a compromise between a single-payer system and our current system, in which only certain Americans now qualify for government-run programs. More people — maybe many more — could get government insurance. But only if they wanted it.Public-option plans would allow middle-income, working-age adults to choose a public insurance plan — like Medicare or Medicaid — instead of a private insurance plan. There are various ways this could work. Some proposals would allow individuals to pay a premium to buy a Medicare or Medicaid plan that would be the same as the insurance now available to older people, the disabled or the poor. Others would set up a new public plan, run by the government, that Americans could buy. Under most proposals, people who get federal help buying Obamacare coverage could use their government subsidies to help them buy either a private or public option.Most of the current proposals would limit access to the public option to certain groups of Americans. A bill from Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan and colleagues would allow only those older than 50 to buy a Medicare plan, for example. Some plans would allow only people who buy their own health insurance to choose Medicare or Medicaid as an option alongside those offered in the Obamacare exchanges. Others would also let employers choose Medicare, instead of a private health insurance company, when offering benefits to their workers. A plan from a liberal think tank, the Center for American Progress, would make the public Medicare option available to anyone who wanted to sign up.An advantage of a public option, at least politically, is it would preserve more choice for individuals, who could stick with a private plan if they prefer. That would make it less disruptive than a single-payer plan. A downside is that keeping lots of different insurance options could undermine one of the goals of a single-payer system, a simpler approach that would involve less money tied up in paperwork and insurance company profits.All of the earlier entries describe ways of organizing the health insurance system. Universal coverage is a broader goal. When people push for universal coverage, they mean that everyone should have access to the health care system. You’ll sometimes hear politicians say that health care should be a “right.” That statement is an endorsement of universal coverage.Most other developed countries embrace this idea, that health care should not be only for those who can afford it. But those countries have not all embraced single-payer approaches.AdvertisementSupported bythe new old ageSo-called conservative management can ease symptoms without dialysis in some people with kidney disease. But many of them are never given the option. By Paula SpanJohn Everdell had lived most of his life with kidney disease. As a young man awaiting a transplant, he had briefly undergone dialysis. That’s how he knew, when the prospect of kidney failure loomed again in his late 60s, that he would refuse dialysis this round.“He was a very independent man, with an idea of how he was going to live his life,” said Trix Oakley, his partner of 22 years.“He didn’t want to be tied down to the routine, having to report to the dialysis clinic every other day. He didn’t like the ups and downs — feeling good but washed-out, then feeling crummy. He didn’t like being attached to the machine.”A woodworker and furniture maker, Mr. Everdell had been in his 30s when he was first diagnosed with kidney disease. By his 60s, he had received two transplants, with kidneys donated by his siblings.But in recent years, living in Cambridge, Mass., he and Ms. Oakley could see that his second transplanted kidney was faltering. The readings on his monthly blood tests grew troubling; he felt cold and tired; his hands and feet began to swell. His doctors again suggested dialysis.Instead, with Ms. Oakley’s help, he relied on what’s often called “conservative management,” which helps slow the disease’s progression and treats its symptoms and complications. He followed a careful diet, controlled his blood pressure, avoided weight gain and gave himself hormone injections to ward off anemia. A sister offered her kidney for a third transplant, when needed.In the meantime, he and Ms. Oakley enjoyed road trips, particularly seeking out ferry routes from Canada to Florida. Mr. Everdell, who had once sailed across the Atlantic, was no longer strong enough to handle a boat, Ms. Oakley said. “So we took as many ferries as we could, because he loved being on the water.”Developed as a temporary measure to keep patients with kidney disease alive until they could receive transplants, dialysis instead often becomes a way of life. More than 104,000 people over age 75 were receiving dialysis in 2016, the United States Renal Data System has reported; so were more than 130,000 patients aged 65 to 74.It’s a safe bet most never learned about an alternative: managing their disease and its symptoms medically, with frequent physician monitoring and consultation — but without dialysis.Dialysis prolongs survival, but it also imposes burdens — like traveling to a clinic three times a week for four-hour sessions of hemodialysis, or doing multiple fluid exchanges daily for peritoneal dialysis, which can be performed at home. Conservative management can help patients avoid those routines.Moreover, while some studies show that older patients undergoing dialysis survive longer than those using conservative management, those differences fade among people over age 75 who also contend with other serious health problems, as most do.And survival, of course, is not the only thing patients value. Conservative management may allow greater freedom to pursue what matters to them, even if they live fewer weeks or months.“Dialysis is a life-changing event,” Dr. Susan Wong, a nephrologist at the Veterans Affairs Health Services Research and Development Center in Seattle, and lead author of a new study in JAMA Internal Medicine. “It’s a very demanding form of treatment. It involves medical issues, spiritual issues, quality of life. It’s a big decision.”Yet patients often tell researchers that they don’t recall making a decision, or even discussing one. Physicians frequently present dialysis as inevitable; in a small study of nephrologists, only a third routinely informed patients about conservative management.“Patients didn’t recognize it as a choice — ‘My doctor told me I’d die if I didn’t do dialysis,’” said Keren Ladin, director of an aging and ethics program at Tufts University, who has interviewed both patients and nephrologists. “Or they’d say that it wasn’t their choice, that their doctor made the choice.”Those patients might have wanted to know, for example, that at the end of life, patients using conservative management were less likely to be hospitalized than dialysis patients, less apt to undergo aggressive procedures, and less likely to die in a hospital.Yet doctors frequently doubt that decision, according to Dr. Wong’s new study of 851 Veterans Affairs patients who declined dialysis. Medical records showed doctors questioning patients’ competence, pushing them to change their minds.“Most were skeptical,” Dr. Wong said of the doctors’ response. “It’s a relatively unusual decision, and providers find it suspect.”Other developed countries take a different approach, especially at advanced ages. Among patients over age 85 with failing kidneys, fewer than 7 percent received dialysis in Canada, a large retrospective study has shown, and fewer than 5 percent in Australia and New Zealand.In the United States, by contrast, a 2016 study of Veterans Affairs patients found more than 40 percent of those over age 85 with advanced kidney disease received dialysis.Lyman Dally was nearly 92 when a fall in his South Orange, N.J., home led to kidney failure in 2013. In the emergency room, doctors started dialysis.“After a week or two, he decided, ‘This is not the way I want to live. It’s painful and it’s tiring,’” said his son, also Lyman Dally.The elder Mr. Dally discontinued dialysis, telling his son that he’d had a wonderful life. He died two weeks later.Medicare and other insurers help propel reliance on this treatment. “Our financial incentives are all about putting people on dialysis,” said Dr. Alvin Moss, a nephrologist and palliative care specialist at West Virginia University School of Medicine.Low reimbursement for monthly office visits to supervise conservative management might doom a practice financially. But Dr. Moss and other researchers also suspect that “conservative management” implies lack of care.Perhaps, they’ve suggested, the approach needs rebranding as “active medical management” or “comprehensive supportive care.”For now, patients interested in conservative management, or whatever we decide to call it, won’t find supportive doctors easy to locate. A few nephrologists have launched programs at New York University, the University of Washington, the University of Rochester and U.P.M.C. in Pittsburgh, among other medical centers.Elsewhere, Dr. Moss suggests seeking out palliative care specialists. Patients should also document their preferences for conservative measures in advance directives, including state P.O.L.S.T. (Physician Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment) forms.Organizations like the Coalition for Supportive Care of Kidney Patients and the American Association of Kidney Patients have useful websites. Dr. Moss also recommends a Canadian site, Conservative Kidney Management.Conservative management helped John Everdell take a lot of ferry rides. But last spring, after years of managing his disease conservatively, Mr. Everdell, 69, was hospitalized with heart failure, a common illness in kidney patients. That ruled out a third transplant as his donated kidney failed.He agreed to give peritoneal dialysis a try. “If you hate it, you can stop,” Ms. Oakley told him.AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.Before we get to today’s newsletter, we wanted to let you know about some big news that’s developing this evening.Today, the Senate voted to approve a compromise on the border that includes funding for some security measures, but not for President Trump’s wall. The bill would prevent another government shutdown, and the president was expected to sign it.Just minutes before the vote, though, the White House announced that Mr. Trump plans to declare a national emergency to build the wall. The story is still developing; you can read the latest here.(And for those of you wondering, here’s an explanation of the president’s emergency powers, and what exactly they allow him to do.)____________________While we wait for the dust to settle from this latest fight between President Trump and Congress, we wanted to tell you about an under-the-radar change the Democrats are making in how they handle voter data — and why it could make a big difference in the 2020 presidential race.Political campaigns collect all kinds of information. Your address, of course, but also things like your age, your interests, if you have kids, your donation records. The more they know, they better they can target ads — so, say, a retired veteran in Oshkosh, Wis., doesn’t get the same message as a vegan freshman at New York University.For years, Republicans had an edge in gathering this kind of information. They had developed a platform that allowed them to share data among state parties, the national party, campaigns and outside groups like PACs. When Mr. Trump became the Republican nominee, the G.O.P. exchange was there to make up for his lack of political organization.Now, the Democrats are taking concrete steps toward establishing their own, similar organization. While the Democratic Data Exchange isn’t as headline-grabbing as the president declaring a national emergency, it might just be one of the most significant steps Democrats can take in their efforts to win in 2020.“What we are announcing today is something that should have been in place years ago,” said Tom Perez, chairman of the Democratic National Committee, who negotiated the deal. “In 2016, it appeared all too frequently that Republicans knew more about voters than we did.”The exchange will be an independent, for-profit enterprise that will allow the national party, state parties and some independent groups, like Planned Parenthood or labor unions, to share data. Organizations won’t know which groups contributed which information, keeping the system from running afoul of Federal Election Commission rules.Democrats have tried to set up such a system twice in the past and failed. Friend of the newsletter Julie Bykowicz broke the news in December that the D.N.C. and state parties were locked in a deep internal battle over who would control the data. Essentially, state parties didn’t want to get shut out of controlling their own voter files — a step they believed would put them on a slippery slope toward irrelevance.It’s a fear rooted in recent history: Advisers to Barack Obama scoffed at the Democratic establishment, believing that running against the state parties would help cast him as the outsider against Hillary Clinton in 2008. After Mr. Obama won the election, his team established its own organization, Organizing for America, and let the Democratic National Committee languish.But Mrs. Clinton’s loss in 2016 helped Democrats realize they could not depend on a presidential nominee to reach voters. They have appointed Howard Dean, the former D.N.C. chairman who still has a strong following among state party leaders, as head of the new exchange, helping to reassure local parties.“People have spent years and millions of dollars collecting that information and ultimately no one wants to give it away,” said Ken Martin, president of the Democrats’ organization of state party leaders. “But what good is data if it just sits in your file?”Want to read more about the Democrats and 2020? Today the party unveiled a new system for their first debate in June. And this graphic looks at the historical precedent for the field being so large, so early (spoiler: there is none).____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________It has been a year since a gunman walked into a high school in Parkland, Fla., and killed 17 people. We were curious what, if anything, has changed politically since then. So we asked Margaret Kramer and Jennifer Harlan, who wrote about the post-Parkland landscape for The Times. Here’s what they told us: From walkouts and calls to action to a national bus tour, the movement led by the students from Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland has had a clear message: Gun control is imperative, and young people’s votes are critical to making it happen.Their message seems to have resonated at the state level. Over the last year, states have passed 76 gun-control laws. Here are three big ones:• The Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School Public Safety Act in Florida. The bill expanded mental health services, raised the minimum age for all gun purchases to 21, established a waiting period for background checks and allowed superintendents and sheriffs to arm school personnel. It also banned bump stocks, but not the AR-15, the gun used in the Parkland shooting.• Ban on the sale of semiautomatic assault rifles to people under 21 in Washington State. I-1639 raised the age of assault rifle purchases to 21, mandated enhanced background checks and added a required firearm safety course for buyers. But sheriffs are reportedly not enforcing the initiative, and the N.R.A. has filed a lawsuit to have it overturned.• The Safe Act in New York. The state banned bump stocks, extended the waiting period for buyers, prohibited teachers from carrying guns in school and blocked individuals who pose a threat from buying or possessing guns — a provision known as a “red flag law.”But aside from a bump stock ban — spurred on by the 2017 Las Vegas massacre — partisan gridlock blocked any national changes in the last year, even as gun deaths rose to their highest rates in 50 years. Democrats, now in control of the House, passed two gun-control bills on Wednesday, the day before the Parkland anniversary. But Senate Republicans and President Trump will most likely prevent the bills from ever becoming law.Read Margaret and Jennifer’s story: Parkland Shooting: Where Gun Control and School Safety Stand TodayAnd for more coverage, read about how Parkland students remembered the day, a moving story about the survivors in their own words, and a look at how many children have been killed by guns since Parkland. ____________________• Amazon canceled its plans to build an expansive corporate campus in New York City after facing an unexpectedly fierce backlash. The decision — a victory for left-wing politicians and activists — represented a reordering of New York’s political power structure.• This visual article takes you to the Alps, to see how climate change is destroying glaciers there — and how Switzerland plans to handle it.•  Vicki Ibarra, an I.R.S. worker, prided herself on her self-sufficiency. Then came the government shutdown. From The Washington Post, a haunting portrait of the long-term effects of the 35-day stalemate.____________________Sure, Valentine’s Day is sappy, overly commercialized and out of step with modern relationships. But a pickle, bacon or doughnut bouquet? That’s an idea we can get behind._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Robert PearWASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s decision to ask a federal appeals court to invalidate the Affordable Care Act has given House Democrats a new opening to pursue what they see as a winning political strategy: moving past talk of impeachment to put kitchen-table issues like health care front and center.The notice to the court, filed late Monday by the Justice Department, could not have come at a more opportune time for Democrats. The finding by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, that there was no evidence of a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, dashed the hopes of the most partisan Democrats that the House would impeach the president.Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who celebrated her 79th birthday on Tuesday — had already planned to move to change the conversation with the unveiling of the Democrats’ own health care plan on Tuesday. The Democrats’ bill aims to lower health insurance premiums, strengthen protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions and ban the sale of what Democrats call “junk insurance.”The Justice Department’s move gave the unveiling an urgency that not even she could have anticipated.“The Republicans did say during the campaign that they weren’t there to undermine the pre-existing condition benefit, and here they are, right now, saying they’re going to strip the whole Affordable Care Act as the law of the land,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters Tuesday, adding, “This is actually an opportunity for us to speak to the American people with clarity.”The administration staked out its new position in a lawsuit that was filed by Republican attorneys general in Texas and other states after Congress failed in 2017 to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but later reduced the law’s tax penalty for people who do not have insurance to zero. The suit contended that the absence of the real tax penalty rendered the law’s “individual mandate” — the requirement that most Americans have insurance — unconstitutional.Without a requirement to purchase insurance, they argued, the law could not then insist that insurance companies cover pre-existing medical conditions and a suite of other “essential health benefits,” such as maternity care and prescription drugs.A judge in Texas agreed and invalidated the entire law, including its expansion of Medicaid and subsidies to help many low- and middle-income people buy insurance. The Justice Department initially said that only parts of the law, including its protections for pre-existing conditions, should be struck down. But on Monday, it expanded its attack to say the whole law should be invalidated.The Justice Department’s move caught both parties by surprise, and put Republicans in a very awkward position.“Not only is this a poor political move, this decision hurts real people who will unfairly lose their health insurance coverage as a result,” said Representative Tom Reed, Republican of New York. “We need to work to find ways to fix our health care system — not blow it up.”Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, at first said, “I haven’t read through what they — was it last night?” He then added, “I think the president has always been very clear that he wanted to repeal Obamacare, and to put a system in that actually lowers the cost and protects individuals’ pre-existing conditions.”Other Republicans were more pointed. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, whose vote helped sink the 2017 repeal effort and who is up for re-election in 2020, pronounced herself “very disappointed,” with the Justice Department’s position.“I thought it was bad enough when last year they wouldn’t defend parts of the law, including the parts protecting people with pre-existing conditions,” Ms. Collins said. “This goes far beyond that and I think was a huge mistake.”But Mr. Trump wholeheartedly embraced the new position on Tuesday, both on Twitter and in the Capitol, shortly before joining Senate Republicans at a closed-door luncheon. “The Republican Party will soon become the party of health care,” he told a throng of reporters and photographers, echoing what he had already written on social media.The president used the closed-door meeting in the Capitol for a rambling, unscripted recitation of his legislative priorities, and repeated his intention to make the subject of health care a major issue over the next two years. That pronouncement elicited a muted response, according to a person in the room.After the luncheon, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Senate health committee, echoed Mr. Trump’s message: “We have to become more the party of health care.”That is not ground the Democrats will easily cede. After months of distracting talk about the Mueller report and impeachment, they are pushing hard to pivot toward the issues that helped elect them — not just health care, but also bigger pay checks and cleaner government.On Wednesday, the House will vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would amend a 1963 law to make it easier for women to challenge pay discrimination.“The focus from the media has been all over Mueller, Russia and so forth,” said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, a close ally of Ms. Pelosi. “Day in and day out, literally 24 hours a day. But lest you think that is the only thing that members are focused on, that’s wrong.”At a closed-door meeting of House Democrats Tuesday morning, Ms. Pelosi praised Ms. DeLauro’s pay equity legislation and urged her fellow Democrats to “stay focused” on issues that matter to most people, not Washington partisans.At his regular weekly news conference, Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the Democratic Caucus chairman, studiously avoided the Mueller inquiry as he talked up the “For the People” agenda that they notionally campaigned on. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about Russia,” he said. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about collusion; nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about obstruction of justice.”Instead, Mr. Jeffries attacked Republicans for “launching an assault on health care in the United States of America.”In the nine years since it was signed by President Barack Obama, the Affordable Care Act has become deeply ingrained in the nation’s health care system. It revamped the way Medicare pays doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. It unleashed innovation in the delivery of health care. Since its passage, the health insurance industry has invented a new business model selling coverage to anyone who applies, regardless of any pre-existing conditions.The law also includes dozens of other less known provisions. Chain restaurants are now required to print nutrition labeling and calorie counts on standard menu items. Certain employers must now provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk. The law also improved prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries, and created a new pathway for the approval of less expensive versions of advanced “biologic” medicines made from living cells.Lawyers and other experts say that uprooting the law could have “dire consequences for millions of people,” in the words of Abbe R. Gluck, a law professor at Yale who has closely followed the litigation. It would also raise legal and practical questions.“The Justice Department’s position is mind-boggling,” said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor of health law at Washington and Lee University. “The Affordable Care Act affects the whole health care system, including Medicare, Medicaid, the Food and Drug Administration, the Indian Health Service and much more. The administration is asking the appeals court to invalidate the entire law without really knowing exactly what that would mean. It’s reckless.”But Ken Paxton, the attorney general of Texas who led the group of Republican state officials who challenged the Affordable Care Act, said he welcomed the Trump administration’s latest expression of support for a lawsuit that had already prompted a district court judge in Texas to strike down the health law. That judge’s ruling in December has been on hold as the matter winds its way through the court system.“We have always been confident that the district court’s extremely well-reasoned opinion was correct on the law, just as we have also always been confident that this administration takes its obligation to uphold the Constitution seriously,” Marc Rylander, a spokesman for Mr. Paxton, said Tuesday. “We applaud the Department of Justice’s faithful execution of that duty.”In addition to inciting a furor on Capitol Hill, the administration’s new position is also certain to take center stage as an issue in the 2020 elections. Democrats have been saying that Mr. Trump still wants to abolish the law, and they can now point to the Justice Department’s filing as proof.The Democrats’ offensive on health care is more than an effort to draw a contrast with Republicans. But in unveiling their bill on Tuesday, Democratic leaders were also trying to smooth over internal divisions between liberals pushing the single-payer government insurance plan known as “Medicare for all” and centrists, who are calling for a more incremental approach.The House Democrats’ health care plan, put together by Ms. Pelosi and several House committee chairmen, builds on the Affordable Care Act, which the speaker was instrumental in passing.It would overturn a rule Mr. Trump issued in August that greatly expanded the market for sales of short-term insurance plans that do not have to cover prescription drugs, maternity care, drug abuse treatment or pre-existing conditions. And it would increase the two main types of financial assistance the law provides: tax credits to help low- and middle-income people pay premiums, and cost-sharing reductions to lower deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs.At Tuesday’s news conference, Democrats were eager to remind reporters that Mr. Trump said in the 2018 campaign that “Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.”“We will remind the American people time and time again of that broken promise,” said Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 House Democrat.Glenn Thrush, Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byBy Inyoung Kang and Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with an extensive college admissions scandal, another Brexit defeat for Theresa May, and California’s expected death penalty moratorium.Nearly two-thirds of Boeing’s 737 Max 8 planes have been grounded since an Ethiopian Airlines plane crashed on Sunday, killing 157 people. On Tuesday, European regulators banned the jets, following similar moves elsewhere. The cause of the crash is unclear, but the groundings were driven in part by regulators’ concerns about similarities to a deadly accident in October involving a 737 Max 8.The U.S. continues to hold out. Boeing’s chief executive made a personal appeal to President Trump, assuring him of the model’s safety. The Federal Aviation Administration said that the planes could keep flying as it continued its review.Catch up: At least two pilots in the U.S. had filed incident reports that raised concerns about safety and training on the Max 8 jets. Here’s the latest.Your questions: A former air safety investigator answers. Fifty people were accused in a scheme to buy spots at Stanford, Yale and other competitive universities in what a U.S. attorney called the “largest college admissions scam ever prosecuted by the Department of Justice.”Those charged include Hollywood celebrities and prominent business leaders, as well as top college athletic coaches who were accused of accepting millions of dollars to help admit students.Why this matters: The scheme, unveiled by federal prosecutors on Tuesday, showed the lengths that some parents will go to and underscored how cutthroat college admissions have become. Here are excerpts from the indictment. The details: The actresses Felicity Huffman and Lori Loughlin were among those charged, as was Ms. Loughlin’s husband, the fashion designer Mossimo Giannulli. See the full list.Parliament overwhelmingly rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for withdrawing from the European Union, leaving Britain seemingly rudderless just over two weeks before its scheduled departure from the bloc.The outcome of the vote was expected, but it nonetheless deepened the crisis facing Mrs. May. In acknowledging her latest defeat, she angrily told lawmakers they would now need to make hard choices.What’s next: Parliament is set to vote today on the possibility of leaving without a deal, a potentially chaotic outcome that lawmakers rejected in a nonbinding motion in January. A vote is also scheduled this week over whether to request an extension for the withdrawal, something many analysts say is now inevitable.Perspective: Mrs. May has no power, no way forward and nothing left to lose, a British journalist writes. “She may as well burn it all down and try to start afresh.” Health care for life is one of the most celebrated benefits of military service, but entrenched sexism and harassment at veterans hospitals is driving many away.The number of women using veterans health services has tripled since 2000 — to about 500,000, from 159,810 — but they make up only 8 percent of all users of V.A. health care. The Department of Veterans Affairs has made progress in accommodating the growing number, but sexual harassment persists, veterans and lawmakers say.Voices: “You felt like you were a piece of meat,” a retired Army sergeant said. “Standing in line at the registration desk, I was getting comments from the male patients behind me, looking me up and down.”Ever since Freddie Gray died after suffering injuries in police custody in 2015, violent crime in Baltimore has surged. In 2017, the city recorded 342 murders, a per-capita rate far higher than any other urban area of 500,000 or more residents.In a collaboration with The Times Magazine, a reporter for ProPublica who lives in Baltimore examined the city’s recent troubles, which he sees as being caused by “nothing less than a failure of order and governance the likes of which few American cities have seen in years.”Paul Manafort sentencing: The total prison sentence for President Trump’s former campaign manager is now seven and a half years, after a second judge ruled today in one of the special counsel’s highest-profile cases.California capital punishment: Gov. Gavin Newsom is set to announce a moratorium on executions in the state today, granting a temporary reprieve for 737 inmates on the largest death row in the Western Hemisphere.Catholic abuse scandal: Cardinal George Pell of Australia was sentenced today to six years in prison for molesting two boys in 1996. And a former New Jersey priest who was accused of sexual abuse was found fatally shot in his home, in what the police are treating as a homicide.Immigration centers closed: The Trump administration is preparing to cut back on support services for those applying overseas to move to the U.S.Snapshot: Above, preparations on Tuesday for an elephant race, part of a festival in Vietnam’s central highlands. Locals say the event is a celebration of the animals, but conservation groups are calling for a ban, saying it is cruel and outdated.A big Jets deal: Le’Veon Bell, the superstar running back who sat out the last N.F.L. season in a salary dispute with the Pittsburgh Steelers, has agreed to join the New York Jets.Surprising N.F.L. trade: The New York Giants have sent Odell Beckham Jr., their most popular player and the highest-paid wide receiver in the league, to the Cleveland Browns.Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert reacted to the news of the college admissions scandal: “You know how the conspiracy theorists say, ‘Everything is rigged for the wealthy and famous’? Well, as a wealthy and famous person, let me just respond by saying: You’re absolutely right.” What we’re listening to: This Pineapple Street podcast. Our Magazine writer Jenna Wortham says Julie Yip-Williams, who died last year after being diagnosed with colon cancer, created “a wonderful and at times devastating meditation on death and what happens to those we leave behind.”Cook: With a little forethought, marinated short ribs can be part of a balanced weeknight rice bowl.Listen: T.S. Eliot had a truly remarkable speaking voice. Now you can listen to previously unheard recordings of him discussing his poetry in 1950.Watch: We have reached Season 3 in our grand rewatch of “Game of Thrones.” Sign up to get our guides.Look: Nike has revealed new uniforms for 14 of 24 teams competing in the Women’s World Cup. Each was made specifically for female athletes. Smarter Living: In the past, when we encountered bacterial threats, our immune systems dealt with them and adapted. But our bodies are becoming unable to do this, partly as a result of overprescribed antibiotics, which goes to show what scientists are finding: You’re not safer when you try to eliminate every risk from your environment.It’s possible to revamp your basketball game at nearly any age. Here’s how a middle-aged father of three sons did it.The otherwise invisible special counsel investigation takes regular public shape inside the E. Barrett Prettyman Courthouse in Washington, where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, appeared at his final sentencing hearing today.It is the same building where the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has used a grand jury to return indictments.Your Back Story writer has visited the building often during months of covering hearings involving Mueller targets, including Mr. Manafort, Roger Stone and Michael Flynn.A little over half a mile from F.B.I. headquarters, the courthouse has a bland limestone exterior, tall windows, long hallways and artificial lighting, which combine to create a sterile aura of law and order. Outside, protesters and camera crews have jostled as Trump associates enter and exit through revolving doors familiar to cable news junkies.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— Inyoung and ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Noah Weiland, a reporter in our Washington bureau, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is on “Medicare for all.” • Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: A horned African mammal (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The latest newsletter from The Times is by our Op-Ed columnist Paul Krugman, who won a Nobel Prize in economics. An earlier version of a picture caption in this briefing misidentified the location of an American Airlines Boeing 737 Max 8. It was in Miami, not Washington.An earlier version of this briefing erroneously attributed a distinction to the number of murders in Baltimore in 2017. The 342 killings represented a per-capita rate — not an absolute number — that was far higher than any other urban area of 500,000 or more residents.
          PAID FOR AND POSTED BY 
          NEW YORK PRESBYTERIAN
As minimally invasive surgical procedures and more effective treatments have proliferated, health care has seen a steady shift toward outpatient services. Now, after years of research and development, the NewYork-Presbyterian David H. Koch Center for ambulatory care has come to life on New York’s Upper East Side, providing leading-edge medical care and a best-in-class patient experience.NewYork-Presbyterian, in collaboration with Weill Cornell Medicine, worked with a trio of architecture firms to build a state-of-the-art, integrated-care facility focused on elevating the patient experience, from diagnosis and treatment to aftercare.“Every decision about the design and operation of this building was made with the patient in mind,” said Dr. Steven J. Corwin, the president and chief executive officer of NewYork-Presbyterian. “This is truly an environment that was designed for healing. And we believe it represents the future of ambulatory care.” The moment a patient steps into the tranquil, soaring lobby, the healing elements of the NewYork-Presbyterian David H. Koch Center surface.“This facility allows us to have a very patient-centric approach, so the patient’s experience is as convenient and as stress-free as possible,” says Dr. Rache M. Simmons, breast surgeon at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center.Integral to the center’s design was minimizing wait times. Patients can register online ahead of their visit and receive an ID band in the mail, so on the day of their visit, registration is simple and quick. Instead of navigating mazelike corridors, patients are directed to dedicated elevators that take them to procedure floors flooded with natural light, where a team member welcomes them: no lines, paperwork or undue stress.“The prime objectives were enhancing the patient experience and taking advantage of the latest technology to transform how we deliver healthcare — from before the patient arrives at the center until they're home,” says Dr. Robert Min, the radiologist-in-chief at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center.“You would be shocked at how quickly patients move in, get registered and head up,” says Dr. Min, who estimated the time from entrance to elevator to be less than two minutes.Once a patient arrives on their floor for a procedure, a team member immediately escorts him or her to a private room equipped with a personal locker, flat-screen TV and tablet. Companions can wait there throughout the medical process, have a bite to eat at the Be Well Bistro or get work done in a variety of lounge areas equipped with USB ports and Wi-Fi. Ahead of a patient’s return to their own private room, companions receive a text-message notification. There is no wait for a recovery bed.Dr. Simmons recalled a recent conversation with a chemotherapy patient. Once in the prep room, the patient felt her anxiety fade. “She said, ‘There’s every comfort you could ask for. I cannot tell you what a difference it makes as a patient.’” Adds Dr. Simmons, “That was great to hear.”
When designing procedure floors, the NewYork-Presbyterian and Weill Cornell Medicine teams incorporated the latest medical technology and past learning to improve the patient experience. After removing breast specimens, for example, oncologists can check on how precise their excisions are with an X-ray machine inside the same operating room, rather than transferring patients the conventional way back to the radiology department — often located in a different building.“Most of the equipment is, if not the first of its kind, then one of the first,” Dr. Min says. “It’s a really high-tech, high-touch, very innovative operating suite.”Additionally, instead of placing radiation oncology equipment in a basement, where they are traditionally relegated because of their intense weight, at the NewYork-Presbyterian David H. Koch Center, the machines are up on the fourth floor — a feat of engineering that allows patients to travel through light-filled corridors.Each of the NYP David H. Koch Center’s 12 operating suites, six interventional radiology procedure rooms and 11 endoscopic procedure rooms, have also been designed to adapt: As techniques or treatments evolve, the building can be efficiently converted, without requiring costly and time-consuming renovations.But the benefits of the center won’t just be within its own walls. The center’s telehealth video capabilities will allow medical techniques to be shared with the larger medical community, according to Dr. David Cohen, the chief of gastroenterology and hepatology at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center.“We hope to have an impact on how endoscopy care is delivered, not just here, but all over the world,” Dr. Cohen says. Dr. Fabrizio Michelassi, the surgeon-in-chief at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center, extols the value of the center’s true multidisciplinary care. “When a patient requires the input of multiple physicians and health care staff, we are able to create a multidisciplinary visit,” Dr. Michelassi says, “where, in rapid sequence, the patient is seen and examined by all health care providers necessary to come up with a complete diagnostic and care plan.”This method can distill a process that can take weeks or months to a single day. The same efficiency is true for treatments. If a patient requires an additional specialist, available doctors can take care of the patient’s needs in one morning.“This building is a really unique opportunity to revisit the experience of being sick in a different context,” says Dr. Silvia Formenti, the radiation oncologist-in-chief at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center and the chairman of radiation oncology at Weill Cornell Medicine, whose team works at the center. “It’s really shifting the balance from the disease to focusing on health.”Services include holistic health care, too. The Integrative Health and Wellbeing program offers meditation classes ahead of surgery and massage therapy for infusion patients. “My patients say it makes a huge difference, with less nausea, less pain postoperatively and just a better mental place going into and coming out of surgery,” Dr. Simmons says.Leaving the building at check-out is just as streamlined as check-in. With the NYP app, there isn’t the hassle of paperwork. Discharge information, test results and follow-up appointments are all accessible online. Guests can even request their vehicles on the NYP app so that when they reach street level, the valet service has their cars ready.AdvertisementSupported byWith a March 29 deadline fast approaching, Britain’s path from the European Union seems as murky as ever. The referendum in June 2016, and the ensuing debate, exposed and hardened divisions.By Kyle Crichton and Anna HollandProduced by Mona Boshnaq and Gaia TripoliThe crazy, agonized, hair-tearing saga of Brexit began nearly three years ago, when David Cameron, the prime minister at the time, called for a referendum on Britain’s membership in the European Union. Shock waves rippled around the world in June 2016 after Britons defied pollsters and voted to leave the bloc.Since then, Britain and the world have been treated to a seemingly endless list of ideas and terminologies — backstops, hard Brexit, soft Brexit, blind Brexit, Canada-plus-plus, Norway-plus-plus, the Chequers plan, vassal state.But as anyone who has paid even remote attention knows, until now, at least, nothing has been decided. The only certainty, it seems, is that there is always a majority against any possible solutions, and never a majority in favor of them. Another way to put it is that Britain has become even more rived by divisions over Europe than it was before the referendum that was meant to end them once and for all.To help aficionados of the process, or even those with a passing interest, The New York Times has collected a pictorial history of Britain’s journey, as captured by Times photographers. Below, a rally in London in December pushing for a complete break from the European Union. The debate around Britain’s withdrawal from the bloc has been long, repetitive, emotional and sometimes vicious. A discussion on the approaching referendum in Glenrothes, Scotland, in 2016. The push to leave the European Union could eventually force voters to re-examine the ties that bind England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.Watching the referendum results in London. About 60 percent of voters in the city wanted Britain to remain in the European Union — a stark reminder of how different London is from the rest of the country. Harvesting vegetables near Boston, England. Many farm workers there are from Eastern Europe, in Britain legally under regulations that allow citizens of European Union nations to live and work in any member country. Rising anxiety about immigration defined and quite likely swung the pro-Brexit campaign. Celebrating the queen’s birthday in Castle Point, Essex, a part of England where people are fiercely English, fiercely Conservative and fiercely pro-Brexit. The English are considerably less willing than their fellow Britons in Scotland and Northern Ireland to see themselves as a subset of Europe, and many feel that their sovereignty and identity are being diluted by a failing European Union and an “uncontrolled” influx of foreigners. An amusement pier in Blackpool, England. Trying to reinvent itself as a seaside resort for the modern age, the city also hopes to take advantage of a possible consequence of Britain’s break with the European Union: an increase in the number of Britons who choose not to vacation abroad. The boundary between the Republic of Ireland from Northern Ireland runs along the top of Cuilcagh Mountain. The frontier has become a major sticking point in Brexit negotiations. Many worry that reinstating a hard border would have psychological and practical implications.The National Health Service, with its mandate to offer free universal health care, is a pillar of postwar British identity, and the prospect of additional funding was used as a rallying cry by anti-Europe campaigners. But many of its employees are from the European Union. Thousands have quit since the Brexit vote, including Tanja Pardela, second from right, who returned to Germany after working as a pediatric nurse in London for 11 years. For many in Britain, a devastating fire at Grenfell Tower in London in June 2017 — the country’s deadliest in more than a century — has come to symbolize not only official negligence but also rising inequality. The Brexit debate exposed the deep resentment of working-class Britons outside London toward the elites in the wealthy, cosmopolitan capital, but the charred remains of the high-rise apartment block, below, became a symbol of that inequality in the heart of the capital itself. Few major Western cities have been more open to Muslims than London, but the Brexit vote and a series of terrorist attacks have shifted the dynamics of daily life for many mainstream Muslims in the British capital. The borough of Barking and Dagenham, pictured, was one of the few in London that voted to leave the European Union, and it did so by nearly two to one. Many whites there saw a vote for Brexit as a vote against immigration and Islam. A German container ship making its way toward a British port in December. Many companies are reassessing their long-term investments in Britain, fearful of how Brexit might affect trade across the European Union.A view of the financial district from the Shard, one of the skyscrapers that define the London skyline. Nearly one-fifth of the world’s banking transactions go through Britain, with most moving through London — but a large piece of the city’s banking business depends on its inclusion in the European Union.Commuters at Canary Wharf station, in the heart of London’s global banking center. Many banks are already configuring plans to move significant numbers of people to other financial centers within the European Union, ensuring that trading can continue without a hitch after Brexit is complete.Bartenders at a London Fashion Week party that brought together people from 27 countries. For decades, Britain — particularly London — has been perceived as a melting pot of creative talent, from both home and abroad. It’s unclear whether Britain can maintain that reputation once Brexit takes effect.London spent billions of dollars on a high-capacity train line to move more people through a growing city and link low-income outlying areas like Thamesmead, pictured, to central London. The project, known as Crossrail, was intended to bind London together. But it may now signal the end of an ambitious era.Britain faces many problems other than its pending exit from the European Union: regional divisions, economic disparities, unemployment and terrorism. After a decade without Islamist terrorist attacks, Britain suffered four in 2017. A vigil was held in Trafalgar Square, London, for victims of an attack in March 2017.Britain is learning to cope with more attacks in the most ordinary of places. People gathered in Manchester, England, in May 2017 after a bombing at an Ariana Grande concert in the city killed 22 people, including children. The town of Grimsby, England, was once home to one of the largest fleet of trawlers in Britain. Now it’s a global hub for the fish processing industry, with fish from all over the world being gutted, packaged and sold to wholesalers. But 70 percent of Grimsby residents voted to leave the European Union, choosing nostalgia for a dying industry over another that is thriving. For a few weeks in July, the national fixation turned to sports, when England made the semifinals of the World Cup for the first time in decades. One newspaper urged the Conservative Party to lay down the cudgels for one day. “Don’t You Know There’s a Game On?” asked its front page.Although the British government has sought to reassure European immigrants that they will not have to leave immediately, no one really knows what residency status they will have once Britain leaves the bloc. More racial abuse and hate crimes have been reported across Britain since the referendum — aimed not just at immigrants from European Union nations but also at blacks, Muslims and Asians from other places.Below, a Polish Mass at a Roman Catholic church in Boston, England. The community feels “uncertainty, a little fear about the situation,” the Rev. Stanislaw Kowalski said.Below, a portrait of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who once championed the common European market but toward the end of her career became a euroskeptic, in storage in Romford, England. The long, drawn-out process has frustrated many in Romford. Below, a fund-raising party in Craignure, Scotland. In Scotland, 62 percent of voters supported remaining in the European Union — making Scotland more pro-Europe than even London. The result crystallized a long-held feeling among Scots that a right-wing Conservative government in London did not represent them — and fueled calls for a new independence referendum. A harbor worker in Brixham, England’s largest commercial fishing port. Many there want Britain to regain control of the waters within 200 miles of shore — fishing grounds that are now managed by Brussels and packed with European vessels. Whether their grievances involve fish, immigrants or meddlesome rules, many Britons resent what they view as interference by European institutions and bureaucrats. AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with President Trump’s strategy in Iraq, the fallout from a racist photograph in Virginia, and another Super Bowl title for the Patriots.The president said in an interview broadcast on Sunday that he planned to maintain an American military presence in Iraq in order to monitor neighboring Iran, even as he moves to withdraw troops from Syria and Afghanistan.The U.S. has been negotiating with Iraq for weeks to allow perhaps hundreds of American troops in Syria to shift to bases in Iraq and strike the Islamic State from there. About 5,200 U.S. troops are currently in Iraq.Another angle: In the same interview, on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” Mr. Trump wouldn’t commit to making public the results of the special counsel’s investigation into Russian ties to his campaign. The law doesn’t require the Justice Department to release Robert Mueller’s report.Perspective: The war in Afghanistan is the longest in modern American history. “The troops have fought bravely,” The Times’s Editorial Board writes. “It’s time to bring them home.”The state’s Legislature is scheduled to meet today after Gov. Ralph Northam, a Democrat, resisted calls to resign over a racist photograph on his medical school yearbook page in 1984. Mr. Northam denied being one of the two men in the picture — one in blackface and the other in a Ku Klux Klan robe — after originally saying he was. State lawmakers from both parties said on Sunday that Mr. Northam’s fragile hold on power risked jeopardizing Democrats’ policy ambitions for the fall, when control of both of Virginia’s legislative chambers will be up for grabs.Local reaction: For many Virginians, grappling with the scandal is as complicated as the state’s tragic racial history.News analysis: President Trump’s willingness to use race as a political weapon has pushed Democrats to confront misconduct in their ranks, one of our correspondents writes.Go deeper: “To live in this country in this century, and still be talking about white men impersonating black people, is to suspect that it’s probably always 1884 somewhere,” our critic at large writes.In a game only Patriots fans could love, New England beat the Los Angeles Rams, 13-3, on Sunday in the lowest-scoring Super Bowl ever.The Patriots, with six Super Bowl titles, are now tied with the Pittsburgh Steelers for the most. Here’s a look at the game’s lackluster statistics (not counting a record 65-yard punt).The ads: Off the field, the action wasn’t much more exciting, as brands steered clear of controversy. (Bud Light did pick an unexpected fight with … corn syrup.)The halftime show: Maroon 5, the quasi-soul, quasi-rock band, was the main attraction but turned in a performance that was “worthy of something much worse than derision: a shrug.” Read our music critic’s review.Juan Guaidó, the young lawmaker leading an effort to topple the country’s authoritarian government, visited ordinary Venezuelans and fielded phone calls from world leaders over the weekend as he tried to get government insiders to turn on President Nicolás Maduro.Despite Mr. Guaidó’s growing support after declaring himself the country’s legitimate interim leader two weeks ago, Mr. Maduro still holds many of the levers of power. They include the state broadcaster, a compliant judiciary, military leaders and ruthless paramilitary forces.What’s next: Shipments of humanitarian aid from Mr. Guaidó’s international allies are expected to begin arriving in Venezuela this week. The assistance could be pivotal to Mr. Guaidó’s movement, which has stirred hope for millions of Venezuelans.In upgrading its 737, a plane that first went into service half a century ago, Boeing wanted innovation — but not so much that the Federal Aviation Administration would require expensive, time-consuming retraining for pilots.The result was the 737 Max, pictured above. Our extensive reporting shows how Boeing’s strategy set off a series of engineering, business and regulatory decisions that would leave the company facing questions years later about the deadly crash in Indonesia.A papal first: Pope Francis arrived in the United Arab Emirates on Sunday, seeking to improve relations with the Muslim world. He is the first pontiff to visit the Arabian Peninsula. El Salvador election: Nayib Bukele, a 37-year-old who promoted himself as a corruption fighter, won the country’s presidential election on Sunday.Fatal subway shooting: A man died on a platform in Queens on Sunday after being shot during a fight. It was the first killing on New York City’s transit system in more than six month, but crime on the subway has been increasing. No charges for Michael Avenatti: The lawyer for the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels won’t face criminal charges after being arrested in November on suspicion of domestic violence.Snapshot: Above, clowns attended an annual memorial service in London on Sunday for Joseph Grimaldi, a 19th-century English entertainer who popularized clowns’ makeup.What we’re reading: This thread on Ava DuVernay’s Twitter account. “The filmmaker posted a two-minute video from 1967 of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as he answered an  interviewer’s question about how black Americans, of all the ethnic groups in the U.S., still suffered,” writes the briefings editor, Andrea Kannapell. “King’s answer is a master class, and the posts that follow add more detail to his points.”Cook: This comforting lentil soup couldn’t be easier.Watch: A new month means new titles available on streaming services in the U.S. and Canada. For February, a bunch of great documentaries arrived on HBO, Amazon and Hulu.Listen: Quiet, nightmarish and nursery-rhyme catchy, Billie Eilish’s new track “Bury a Friend” is matter-of-fact about mourning’s connection to death wishes, writes Jon Pareles.See: Justin Peck’s latest choreography for New York City Ballet. “Principia” is “youthful, ardent, inventive, sincere,” Brian Seibert writes.Smarter Living: If you’re trying to make your work space more ergonomic, having the right chair is crucial. Get an adjustable one if you can. The seat should be wide enough to give your hips a clear inch on either side, and shallow enough that the edge doesn’t hit you behind the knees when you sit back. And do sit back — it eases spinal compression.We also have suggestions for wellness products to add to your “wedding day survival kit.”February is Black History Month, and The Times has put together a special presentation of its Overlooked series, featuring 13 prominent black men and women whose deaths weren’t previously noted in our report.The editor of the collection, Amisha Padnani, described what she discovered through the stories of figures like Scott Joplin, the ragtime master; Gladys Bentley, a gender-bending blues singer; and Major Taylor, the first black world champion in cycling.“Many of them were a generation removed from slavery,” she wrote. “To carve a name for themselves, they sometimes had to make myth out of a painful history, misrepresenting their past to gain a better footing in their future.”“They were ambitious and creative, becoming painters and composers, filmmakers and actors,” she added. “Others used their imaginations to invent and innovate. Often they felt an unspoken greater mission to break the constraints society placed on their race.”The project was created in partnership with Past Tense, a new team at The Times that is delving into the paper’s archives to bring to life compelling stories from the past. Use this form to nominate a candidate for future Overlooked obituaries.That’s it for this briefing. Remember the Instagram egg? The subject of the site’s most-liked post featured in an ad last night to promote mental health services. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the possible peace deal with the Taliban in Afghanistan.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Breast, thigh or wing (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • In March, The Times released “Diversity 2017,” a report on its efforts to create a more diverse and inclusive work culture. An earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to a record shared by the New England Patriots and the Pittsburgh Steelers. The teams have each won six Super Bowl titles, not six N.F.L. titles.Virgin Hyperloop One is testing a system that would put passengers in pods hurtling through vacuum tubes. Other companies are moving ahead with similar plans.The tube used for unmanned testing by Virgin Hyperloop One north of Las Vegas. The system aims to move people and cargo through tubes in wheel-less pods. CreditCreditJoe Buglewicz for The New York TimesSupported byBy Eric A. TaubMOAPA, Nev. — California just decided to sharply scale back its plans for a high-speed rail artery meant to transform travel up and down the state. But in the desert outside Las Vegas, the transportation ambitions still seem limitless.Here, engineers working for Virgin Hyperloop One are testing a radically different type of mass transit: one that aims to move people and cargo in small wheel-less pods in a vacuum tube at speeds that could exceed 600 miles per hour. Today’s swiftest rail travel, at top speeds less than half as fast, would become a quaint anachronism.The company, which counts Sir Richard Branson’s Virgin Group as a minority investor, is one of several in the United States, Canada and other countries developing hyperloop technology. The concept was promoted by Elon Musk, of electric-car and private-rocket renown, and then offered by one of his companies as open-source technology available to all. It works by propelling pods using magnetic levitation through a low-pressure, near-vacuum tube.The low pressure minimizes friction and air resistance, greatly reducing the power needed. And because the pods travel in a tube, they’re not subject to shutdowns due to harsh weather, like snow or polar vortexes.We’ve seen this concept before. Libraries used to send book requests to the stacks in pneumatic tubes. Until 1984, a similar network whisked messages around Paris. And a series of underground tubes once dispatched mail between Manhattan and Brooklyn.The concept was even tried with people for three years in New York’s subway. Beginning in 1870, Beach Pneumatic Transit, named for its developer, ran a passenger capsule moved by pneumatic power under Broadway in Manhattan, from Warren Street to Murray Street.Virgin Hyperloop One, based in Los Angeles, began testing here in 2017 and is now doing so with a full-scale test track; its main competitors, Hyperloop Transportation Technologies, also in Los Angeles, and TransPod, with headquarters in Toronto, expect to build their own test tracks this year. So far both are working with computer simulations.In the barren desert 35 miles north of the Las Vegas Strip, Virgin’s 1,640-foot-long, 11-foot-high tube has been used for hundreds of runs, with an empty pod that in one test accelerated to 240 m.p.h. Plans call for the commercialized system to reach a continuous 510 m.p.h., with 670 m.p.h. possible.To avoid making anyone sick, the system would take three minutes to accelerate to that speed, and the train would need to travel six miles to turn 90 degrees, said Ismaeel Babur, one of the company’s senior civil engineers.Because of its slow takeoff rate, “you’ll feel 30 to 40 percent of the acceleration compared to an airplane,” Mr. Babur said. The trip will be so smooth, he added, that “coffee won’t slide even at 600 miles per hour.”Each of the three companies has raised tens to hundreds of millions of dollars and developed its own patented approach to long-distance mass transit. TransPod, with $52 million in capital, has preliminary agreements to build a six-mile test track for a route that would eventually span the 180 miles between Calgary and Edmonton in Alberta, as well as a shorter track near Limoges, France, for one of several French routes under consideration.Hyperloop Transportation Technologies, which has raised $42 million, is in the design phase for a 1,100-yard test track in Abu Dhabi and is preparing to build a 350-yard test track in Toulouse, France.Virgin, which has raised $295 million, is in the developmental stage with projects in India and Ohio. Last month, the Indian state of Maharashtra declared the company’s proposed hyperloop system between Pune and Mumbai as an official infrastructure project. Construction on a seven-mile test track could start this year, said Jay Walder, the company’s chief executive.Passenger operations could begin by the middle of the next decade, cutting travel time between the cities to 30 minutes, one-fifth the current duration.“The more we see, the more we find the technology to be compelling,” said William Murdock, executive director of the Mid-Ohio Regional Planning Commission, a nonprofit governmental transportation agency. Virgin Hyperloop One is working on a proposed system to connect Chicago, Columbus and Pittsburgh.“Columbus is a freight logistics hub,” said Mr. Murdock, who hopes that the entire hyperloop route could be built in the next 10 years. “To commute quickly between Chicago and Pittsburgh would be fantastic.”All three companies contend that because of energy cost advantages over other forms of transportation, a system will be able to break even in a decade after full-scale operations begin. Not only will commuters be able to get from place to place faster, but doing so will allow people to comfortably live far from their work, giving access to educational, cultural and health services normally out of reach.Hyperloop developers expect pods to carry not only people but also high-value, low-weight cargo, offering an alternative to carriers using high-cost air transport, like FedEx and Amazon. In addition, they say, automobile manufacturers and others relying on just-in-time delivery of parts to keep inventory costs down would be able to get parts from distant locations.While such visions are a distant dream, hyperloop companies have attracted key talent and enthusiastic municipalities. Mr. Walder, Virgin Hyperloop One’s chief executive, is a former head of New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority and managing director at Transport for London. Before taking the job in November, he said, he asked Mr. Branson — who stepped down as Virgin Hyperloop One’s chairman last year — whether he was “still fully committed to this.”“Not only was he committed, but he thought it was one of the most exciting things he’s ever done,” Mr. Walder said. Hyperloop Transportation Technologies is taking a more holistic approach, looking to reinvent not only transport but also the way companies work and the way such a venture can be sustainably funded.The company has only 50 full-time employees, but they’re augmented by 800 people around the world who work strictly for stock options, in exchange for putting in at least 10 hours per week on the project.“This model gives us a fairly low burn rate,” said Dirk Ahlborn, the company’s founder and chief executive. “But there are communication challenges. Some teams work amazingly, and others do not perform at all. You’re competing with their free time, their wives and their babies. It’s definitely a different way to do things.”Another difference from other transit systems will be the passenger experience. To keep the structural integrity of the near-vacuum tube, there will be no windows. “People would get sick looking at trees passing by at 600 miles per hour,” said Sébastien Gendron, TransPod’s chief executive.Instead, developers are looking at various exterior simulations that could be projected on large screens throughout the pod. “We could create a depth effect through video projection,” Mr. Gendron said. Even movies could be shown. Mr. Ahlborn believes that showing advertisements and providing other services to travelers could provide additional income that would hold down fares. “My vision is that the ticket model is not the best model,” he said. “We can enable a marketplace of services and generate a lot of money.”But before such musings turn into reality, hyperloop proponents must prove that their systems work, that they’re safe for people and cargo and that they’re affordable.“From the point of view of physics, hyperloop is doable,” said Garrett Reisman, professor of astronautical engineering at the University of Southern California and a former astronaut on the International Space Station.The experience will be no different from riding in an airplane with the shades drawn, and technical issues around maintaining the vacuum within the tube will be solved, he believes.Instead, hyperloop projects will face more mundane challenges.“Getting innovative things through the regulatory and certification environments is very difficult,” Mr. Reisman said. “This could face an uphill battle in the U.S.” Which companies will succeed, if any, is anyone’s guess. Yet each main player is rooting for the others, knowing that one failure will put a pall over the technology as a whole.“The worst thing that would happen to us is if Virgin Hyperloop One is not successful,” Mr. Ahlborn said. Whether any company can garner the necessary finance is still an open question, leading Mr. Ahlborn to wonder if any one can ultimately go it alone. “Maybe there could be a consolidation between our companies,” he said.Rick Geddes, professor in the department of policy analysis and management at Cornell University, sees a different challenge. “The biggest problems for hyperloop will be securing rights of way and permitting,” he said.Still, Professor Geddes believes that hyperloop systems will become a reality, as the time is ripe.AdvertisementSupported byThe Parkland students became a force for gun control legislation and boosted the youth vote. Here’s how they changed America’s response to mass shootings. By Margaret Kramer and Jennifer HarlanOn Feb. 14, 2018, a former student slaughtered 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. The next day, David Hogg, a student who survived the attack, expressed his frustration at the pattern of political inaction that seems to follow mass shootings in the United States. He was not surprised that there had been another school shooting, he said, and that fact alone “says so much about the current state that our country is in, and how much has to be done.”“We need to do something,” he said. In the course of the next year, students would change the way the nation handles mass shootings, spurring new gun legislation and school safety measures, and holding to account the adults they felt had failed them.Here’s a look at where they made those changes happen, and where they were disappointed. With Parkland, it was the students who set the agenda. Their openness about their pain made them formidable leaders of the movement for gun control, and their displays of strength and utter grief struck a chord with a nation numbed by repeated acts of violence.In the weeks after the shooting, busloads of Stoneman Douglas students took their case to the Florida capital and to Washington. With a rallying cry of “Never Again,” they gathered support from other young people and activists, and their March for Our Lives campaign spurred huge rallies and hundreds of protests, including a nationwide school walkout. The students’ pleas reached the White House, imploring President Trump to better protect schools and limit access to guns. And the movement brought youth activism to a new age — finding global power in social media and pushing public officials to acknowledge their accountability. [Read how the Parkland massacre has changed the lives of the survivors in their own words.]Three months after the massacre in Parkland, 10 people were killed in yet another school shooting, this one in Santa Fe, Tex., compounding the Stoneman Douglas students’ outrage and resolve, and placing them in a new role: consoling those who were suffering as they were. “Something about Parkland has been different,” said Melissa Strassner, a survivor of the Columbine school shooting in 1999. “They truly have inspired a nation.”Stoneman Douglas students and parents were outraged by what they viewed as gross incompetence on the part of school and law enforcement officials. Video showed that a sheriff’s deputy assigned to the school did not enter the building as the attack unfolded. Seven other deputies remained outside as gunshots rang out, a state commission found. And another officer prevented paramedics from entering.The school district also appeared to have missed several warning signs about the former student charged in the massacre, Nikolas Cruz. The parents of two 14-year-old students who were killed decided to run for the school board to fix what they thought went wrong. One of them won.And in January, Florida’s new Republican governor, Ron DeSantis, suspended Sheriff Scott Israel for his “neglect of duty” and “incompetence.” Mr. Israel, who is a Democrat and a vocal opponent of the National Rifle Association, continues to insist that the criticism of him is politically motivated and that “there was no wrongdoing on my part.” Multiple deputies have also been suspended, and one ultimately resigned.In the case of Mr. Cruz, the warning signs were many. There were the boasts about killing animals, the expulsion, the stalking of a female classmate, the repeated calls from his mother to the police. School counselors and a sheriff’s deputy decided at one point that he should be forcibly committed for psychiatric evaluation, only to apparently change their minds the next day. Multiple tips to the F.B.I. were left uninvestigated — one woman told the bureau’s tip line she was worried about Mr. Cruz going “into a school and just shooting the place up.” At that time, there was no law in Florida that would have prevented Mr. Cruz from buying a gun or would have allowed the police to take away his weapon. A gun control bill the state passed in March now allows law enforcement — with judicial approval — to bar a person deemed dangerous from owning guns for up to a year. Florida courts granted more than 1,000 such orders in the first nine months after the law took effect, according to The Associated Press. Eight other states have passed similar “red flag” laws in the last year, bringing the total with such laws to 14. Several more states are expected to take up measures in 2019.State legislatures, both Republican- and Democratic-controlled, passed 76 gun control laws in the past year  — from bans on bump stocks and caps on magazine sizes to new minimum-age requirements and expanded background checks. Among the victories for gun control advocates was an omnibus bill in Florida that raised the minimum age to purchase a firearm in the state to 21 and extended the waiting period to three days. In all, more than half the states passed at least one gun control measure in 2018, with Washington and New York joining the trend in 2019. At the same time, there were significantly fewer new state laws expanding gun rights in 2018 than the year before, according to an end-of-year report by the national advocacy group Giffords. Data provided by the N.R.A. also indicated that the number of enacted gun control measures outnumbered pro-gun measures for the first time in at least six years.But at the federal level, any momentum for change was quickly stymied by partisan gridlock. Republican leaders in Congress remained silent as their Democratic colleagues called, once again, for changes in the wake of a mass shooting. The White House flip-flopped on promises to raise the minimum age to purchase rifles and to enforce universal background checks. And the N.R.A. pressed lawmakers, including the president, to give priority to the interests of gun owners.[Nearly 1,200 children have been killed by gun violence since the shooting in Parkland. Read how teenage journalists told their stories.]In the end, the only significant national change was a ban on bump stocks — which members of both parties had been calling for since the Las Vegas shooting in October 2017. The House of Representatives, where Democrats took power in January, has now made gun safety a priority, and the Judiciary Committee passed two gun-control bills on Wednesday that would strengthen background checks and close a loophole that allowed Dylann S. Roof to buy a gun that he used in the Charleston church massacre in 2015. But with a Republican Senate and president, the chances of either measure moving beyond the House are virtually nil.In the days after Parkland, a flood of threats and false alarms heightened the focus on school security nationwide. Schools have turned to an array of measures: hiring armed guards, requiring students to carry clear backpacks, arming teachers with baseball bats. Some campuses have added more cameras and metal detectors or hired companies to monitor students’ social media for potential threats — all of which has created a lucrative market for school security.The president voiced support in the days after Parkland for arming teachers with guns as a way to prevent further massacres. It was an early indicator of the tack that he and congressional Republicans would take in addressing the shooting. In March, Mr. Trump announced the creation of a federal commission to examine school safety proposals, including raising the minimum age for buying certain firearms. But two months later, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos informed a Senate committee that the commission would not look at the role guns play in school violence. Its final report played down the role of guns, and advised schools to improve mental health services and train school personnel to use firearms.When it became clear that Congress would not act on guns, the Parkland students turned their attention to rallying young voters and increasing turnout in the midterm elections in November.Madison Leal, a student at Stoneman Douglas, said in March about politicians who would not take action: “I’m going to vote them out of office. And so is my entire generation. And they’ll be sorry then.” In the summer, a busload of students traveled the country on a Road to Change tour aimed at registering young voters. In tandem with various voter groups and celebrities promoting registration, the Parkland students helped spike record numbers for young voter registration, registering thousands of voters at their rallies. The March for Our Lives campaign reported a 10 percent increase in youth turnout in 2018, compared with the previous midterm elections in 2014.AdvertisementSupported byIn an effort to reduce opioid addiction, doctors are cutting back on pain medication — and sometimes leaving patients to suffer.By Maia SzalavitzMs. Szalavitz is the author of “Unbroken Brain: A Revolutionary New Way of Understanding Addiction.”Katie Tulley suffers from an incurable bladder disorder so painful that it feels “like tearing skin off your arm and pouring acid on it, 24/7,” she said. On scans, the organ looks like an open sore.Ms. Tulley, a 37-year-old Louisianan who used to work with autistic children, manages her pain with a fentanyl patch. The opioid gives her a few precious hours out of bed to help her parents, do online volunteer work and occasionally leave home for something other than a medical visit. “I don’t get a euphoric feeling,” she said, noting that she has lowered her dose to avoid feeling woozy and impaired.Now, because of legal concerns about overdose risk, her doctors have considered stopping her medication, even though she has never misused it. And so, when she recently discovered a suspicious lump in her belly, she found herself hoping it was cancer. “I shouldn’t ‘want’ cancer,” she said. “But at this point it’s the only way to be treated” for her pain.As many as 18 million patients rely on opioids to treat long-term pain that is intractable but not necessarily associated with terminal illness. In 2016, seeking to curb opioid misuse, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention introduced guidelines outlining a maximum safe dosage and strongly urging doctors to avoid prescribing for chronic pain unless death is imminent. The guidelines were supposed to be voluntary and apply only to chronic pain patients seeing general practitioners. Instead, they have been widely seen by doctors as mandatory.As a result, thousands of pain medication recipients have had their doses reduced or eliminated. But this attempt to save people from addiction is leaving many patients in perpetual pain — and thus inadvertently ruining, or even ending, lives.A Veterans Health Administration study found alarming rates of suicidal acts “following discontinuation of opioid therapy.” Human Rights Watch recently released a report detailing the struggles of chronic pain patients in the United States to find relief and care as a result of government efforts to reduce prescriptions.Prescribing outside the C.D.C. guidelines can lead to scrutiny by medical boards and even the Drug Enforcement Administration — and the result has been that many doctors have either quit prescribing entirely or tapered patients’ doses to fit the guidelines. According to a 2017 Boston Globe survey, nearly 70 percent of family and internal medicine doctors nationwide reported having reduced their prescribing in the previous two years — and nearly 10 percent reported stopping prescribing pain medication entirely. The State of Oregon is considering a proposal that would require that all Medicaid patients with certain forms of chronic pain be forced off opioids. But not all patients can manage without opioids and some — whether because of metabolic or genetic differences, or tolerance from long-term use — will always need higher doses than the C.D.C. recommends.Jay Lawrence, a former truck driver, is a case in point. When his doctor refused to continue his medication in early 2017 — even though he had severe pain from spinal cord injuries and was not addicted — he told his wife that he’d had enough. In a park where they’d recently renewed their wedding vows, he fatally shot himself in the chest while she held his hand.By working to reduce prescribing, government regulators, insurers, law enforcement officials, legislators and other policymakers have ignored the genuine dangers of leaving people in agony, including suicide and increased risk for heart attacks and strokes. And with the Trump administration having pledged to cut the manufacturing of opioids by pharmaceutical companies by an additional 10 percent, even more patients are at risk.To be sure, opioids have been overprescribed. A Johns Hopkins review of six studies found that over two-thirds of patients reported having unused pills. And for many people, the pain killers either aren’t effective or do more harm than good. But while medical opioid use has fallen by nearly one-third since peaking around 2011 — and deaths associated with prescription opioids have stabilized — overall opioid overdose fatalities have recently hit a high as more potent, illegally manufactured opioids hit the streets.Indeed, as prescribing fell, deaths connected to illicit opioids skyrocketed. From 2010 to 2016, heroin overdose mortality rose by nearly 500 percent — and mortality associated with illegally manufactured fentanyl jumped 600 percent from 2013 to 2016 alone.Officials with the Centers for Disease Control admit that they do not specifically track suicides by patients who have lost medical access to pain relievers, so we don’t really know how many people are killing themselves because they can’t live with their pain.But there is much anecdotal evidence that chronic pain drives patients to suicidal thoughts. Karen King, for example, says she has had four hospitalizations because of suicidal thoughts or attempts in the past year alone. She suffers chronic pain from a broken neck. When her doctor cut her medication, she had to close the quilt store she owned in Massachusetts. Without medication, she couldn’t stand or carry bolts of fabric. “It broke my heart,” she said.Jeff Geurin is another example. He was a cryptologic linguist in the Air Force when he was wounded in a parachute jump accident. He retrained as a surgical technician after a medical discharge from the military in 2008. Last year, his doctor ceased his medication, leaving him with such intense back pain that he had “plans made” for suicide, before he found a new doctor.In the rush to reduce opioid misuse, it is easy to forget that millions of people have safely taken these drugs for years. Data show that less than 8 percent of chronic pain patients become addicted, according to a study that has the director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse as a co-writer. And overwhelmingly, prescription opioid addiction doesn’t begin with a doctor’s prescription: About 80 percent of people who start misusing these drugs are getting them from family, friends and other people’s medicine cabinets — not from legitimate pain treatment. It is true that long-term, high-dose opioid use is associated with increased overdose risk. But proponents for cutting pain medication use often fail to recognize that simply reducing or ending pain pill prescriptions can be risky, too.A 2017 study of about 500 veterans who were forced to taper found that 9 percent became suicidal and 2 percent actually acted on those thoughts. Other research recently presented at a major health services conference showed that 30 percent of those who were made to taper completely were dead within six months, though the data didn’t show the cause of death.Dr. Stefan Kertesz, a professor of medicine at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, has publicly noted that there is no compelling body of evidence showing that forced tapering is consistently helpful, and that it is clearly associated with harm in some cases.Even people with terminal cancer can be affected. Dr. Barbara McAneny, the president of the American Medical Association, recently described a close call in one of her own patients. He had prostate cancer that infiltrated his bones — and attempted suicide after being turned away at the pharmacy because his dose was outside the guidelines.After years of complacency, doctors are finally starting to fight back. Dr. McAneny cited her experience to support a resolution, subsequently passed by the medical association, that warns against “misapplication” of the guidelines. The group stresses that dose alone is not a reason for insurers or pharmacists to block access — and that doctors with good clinical reasons for variance should not be investigated or prosecuted.A parallel effort by a group of over 300 medical professionals, co-led by Dr. Kertesz and signed on to by three former United States drug czars, calls on the C.D.C. to make a “bold clarification” by stating that its guidelines do not require that chronic pain patients who are dependent on opioids have their dosages tapered. Another large group of physicians — including some strong supporters of the guidelines as written — recently published a journal article calling involuntary tapers a “large-scale humanitarian issue” and demanding that they be prohibited or at least minimized.Paradoxically, there is a growing medical consensus that patients who are addicted to their pain pills shouldn’t be forced to taper their dosages. The safest treatment for opioid addiction is maintenance with an appropriate opioid: For addiction, the opioids methadone and buprenorphine are the only treatments proved to cut the death rate from overdose by 50 percent or more.“We have less mercy for people who have chronic pain and are on chronic opioids than we do for somebody who’s using heroin in the streets right now,” said Dr. Kertesz. Both groups deserve more compassion, including a safe legal harbor for high-dose prescribing for patients who truly need it — as well as for their doctors. Attempting to reduce overdose risk by raising the odds of suicide is both cruel and senseless.AdvertisementSupported byThe judge presiding over all the federal cases had hoped to settle them by now. But the behemoth litigation is only becoming more bloated, contentious and difficult to resolve.By Jan HoffmanUncontested: The devastation from prescription opioids has been deadly and inordinately expensive. Contested: Who should foot the bill?Just over a year ago, opioid lawsuits against makers and distributors of the painkillers were proliferating so rapidly that a judicial panel bundled all the federal cases under the stewardship of a single judge. On a January morning, Judge Dan Aaron Polster of the Northern District of Ohio made his opening remarks to lawyers for nearly 200 municipal governments gathered in his Cleveland courtroom. He wanted the national opioid crisis resolved with a meaningful settlement within a year, proclaiming, “We don’t need briefs and we don’t need trials.”That year is up.Far from being settled, the litigation has ballooned to 1,548 federal court cases, brought on behalf of cities and counties, 77 tribes, hospitals, union benefit funds, infants with neonatal abstinence syndrome and others — in total, millions of people. With a potential payday amounting to tens of billions of dollars, it has become one of the most complicated and gargantuan legal battles in American history.With settlement talks sputtering, the judge has signed off on a parallel track involving, yes, briefs, focused on, yes, trial. He will preside over three consolidated Ohio lawsuits in what is known as a “bellwether,” or test case. The array of defendants include Purdue Pharma, Mallinckrodt PLC, CVS RX Services Inc. and Cardinal Health, Inc. That jury’s verdict could determine whether the parties will then negotiate in earnest or keep fighting.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The trial date has already been postponed twice. It is now scheduled for Oct. 21.“I knew this would be complex and challenging,” Judge Polster said in an interview, “but it turned out to be far more so than I envisioned.”To help sort through the complexity, here are some important developments and what they mean:Manufacturers, distributors and pharmacies are supposed to track and report prescription opioids to the Drug Enforcement Administration and raise alarms when orders seem suspicious. After considerable legal skirmishing, the D.E.A. complied with orders from Judge Polster and turned over more than 400 million lines of data. It’s a detailed history, from 2006 through 2014, showing how many opioids were made by each manufacturer, trucked by each distributor and sold in pharmacies across the country. The plaintiffs have long said that the companies deliberately looked the other way at the improbable quantities. But the lawyers did not have the hard numbers in hand to bolster their claims.Now they do.For the time being, the judge will not release the data to the public. But a passage from a congressional report gives a sense of the granular information in the data: during 10 months in 2007, one distributor, McKesson, shipped three million prescription opioids to a single pharmacy in a West Virginia town with 400 residents.The data has turned out to be a modest help to some of the defendant companies, too: because the D.E.A. reports show that certain medications were not sold in large quantities in some communities,  companies that make and distribute them have been dropped from a few cases. In the Cuyahoga County, Ohio lawsuit, for example, the Kroger Company, which owns grocery stores that include pharmacies, was dropped because they turned out not to have a location in the area.In a 39-page decision last month, Judge Polster shot down the drug industry’s efforts to dismiss the Ohio trial. Instead, he gave the lawyers the go-ahead to test just about every legal theory the plaintiffs raised.They include: that the companies conspired; committed fraud; were negligent; violated public nuisance laws — this last being a relatively recent, novel way for communities to redress health crises.Of course, legal theory is one thing. Next comes the hard part: the plaintiffs will actually have to prove those allegations to a jury.Typically, patients who sue for medical malpractice or product liability must turn over their own medical records as proof. They forfeit conventional privacy rights. Here, the overwhelming majority of plaintiffs are government entities, not individuals. They are seeking to be reimbursed for the accumulated costs of drug addiction and its collateral damage. The defendants want them to produce precise evidence showing how those costs are calculated, including the chain of events — for example, from a drug’s development, to its delivery, to a pharmacy-filled prescription to, eventually, bills from hospitals and others.That means the drug industry is asking for patients’ records and for every prescription the plaintiffs deemed medically “suspicious.” The plaintiffs are pushing back, saying that the depleted municipal budgets for health, social services and law enforcement paint a more telling picture.But they are giving ground.The plaintiffs have now turned over millions of coded insurance claims connected to opioids. The fight has moved to the scope and quantity of patients’ medical records.At the same time, plaintiffs are seeking the internal documents from the pharmaceutical industry pertaining to development, marketing and sales strategies.They are also looking for documents showing what efforts the companies made to prevent their drugs from being illegally diverted. Years ago, some companies settled cases with promises to take such steps. The plaintiffs want to know whether they actually did so.Defense lawyers say they have already handed over roughly 67 million documents.A knee-surgery patient goes home with opioids. His teenage son finds the pills in the bathroom medicine cabinet and starts down a jagged road that ends in heroin addiction.Should the companies that made, distributed and sold the prescription painkillers be liable?What if the son sold them to a friend who turned to street drugs and overdosed? Are the drug companies responsible then?Multiply these examples by many years and generations of analogous scenarios. Now tabulate the accumulating drain on civic budgets for emergency responders; hospitals; incarceration; drug courts; rehab; mental health services; child welfare.Whether the companies should have foreseen the growth of an illicit second market — including pills, heroin and fentanyl — is among the knotty questions being addressed.Right now, Judge Polster, who is only ruling on the Ohio bellwether cases, says yes.But to make matters even more twisty: if more bellwethers go to trial, the answers to these and numerous other questions may differ, depending on the jurisdiction.Lawyers on both sides agree: This litigation presents a slew of novel legal issues.If the bellwether ends in a victory for plaintiffs, appeals courts, increasingly filled with conservative judges, would be unlikely to uphold all of Judge Polster’s rulings on these untested legal questions, much less a whopping, emotional jury award. Complexity favors the defense.And in settlement negotiations, the long game is the defense’s best friend: they can afford to drag this out. Typically, the longer it slogs on, the more the final tab gets driven down.According to Andrew S. Pollis, a litigation expert who teaches at Case Western Reserve Law School in Ohio, the plaintiffs have advantages, too.“Judge Polster’s unusual level of commitment to settlement” is potent, he said. The judge is still pushing for a relatively swift resolution, replete with directed funds to help remedy the crisis and establish prevention measures.The judge’s biggest stick that could drive defendants to the bargaining table is the bellwether trial, with its looming date. A trial could not only unleash far more money than a settlement would, but the companies’ documents currently under seal would become glaringly public, telling a more complete story of the relationship of the defendants to the crisis.And, to that point, Mr. Pollis added: Don’t discount the leveraging power of public perception and pressure, which does bear down on the defense — “especially since the plaintiffs are, in effect, all of us.”The defendants want a global settlement — a comprehensive agreement that will indemnify them against further lawsuits. The multidistrict litigation, with all the federal cases, is positioned for that goal.But to achieve it, Judge Polster needs cooperation from state courts. There are about 332 other cases that have been filed in state courts. Coordinating data sharing between the state and federal cases is a feat unto itself. Indeed with Purdue documents from the federal litigation, Massachusetts has moved ahead with its own case; over Purdue’s objections, the Massachusetts judge has made public far more than Judge Polster has.So there’s an ongoing baroque court dance between Judge Polster and the states. He cannot be perceived as a big-footer. The state judges must be seen as independent. And yet Judge Polster needs cooperation from the states to achieve that global settlement.In a recent interview, Judge Polster repeatedly emphasized, “I don’t control the state court judges or the attorneys general but I very much appreciate their participation. They are indispensable.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Ceylan YeginsuDUBLIN — The abortion clinic’s website pops up at the top of a Google search for “free ultrasound,” its content and color scheme mimicking the government’s new support service for unplanned pregnancy.“Looking for abortion advice?” “How far along am I?” The bright orange speech bubbles attached to stock images of smiling medical experts purport to inform women about abortion options that became legally available in Ireland on Jan. 1.The brick-and-mortar version of the Dublin clinic, however, is less inviting. Its true purpose is to obstruct abortions: Hanging out front, like a graphic warning on a cigarette pack, is a giant poster of a 15-year-old girl who died after receiving an abortion in London. Inside sits an ultrasound machine in a small, narrow room that has the air of a back alley medical facility.In May, Ireland voted decisively to cast aside one of the world’s most restrictive abortion bans, approving a new law that guarantees unrestricted abortion up to the 12th week of pregnancy, and longer in situations in which there is a serious risk to the life or health of a woman, or in which there are fatal fetal abnormalities.The historic result was hailed as an extraordinary victory for women’s rights, sealing a pronounced shift toward social liberalism — including in recent years the approval of same-sex marriage and the election of a gay prime minister — in a society that had long been dominated by the Roman Catholic Church.But as Irish women are now discovering, the mere passage of a law cannot wipe away deeply held beliefs. Women seeking abortions are finding they must still contend with a deeply ingrained opposition that is hobbling the government’s efforts to make safe and efficient abortion services readily available.An emboldened anti-abortion movement has started employing United States-style tactics like fake abortion clinics and protests outside legitimate ones. But it is not just the anti-abortion activists who are limiting women’s options.Worried about the stigma attached to abortion, doctors have been slow to sign up to provide the service, and hospitals have lagged in establishing facilities. Women seeking abortions say that the entire process is still hush-hush, and some say they do not feel comfortable discussing it with their family physician.“I spent three days on the phone before I found both a doctor willing to do it and a clinic which had the medicine,” said one woman who did manage to have an abortion this month. She gave only her middle name, Arlene, so that her family would not find out. “I felt quite scared and alone. It felt like what I imagine it was like before the referendum, like you’re doing something underground and illegal.”Last month, she had considered traveling to Britain for the procedure, as generations of Irish women did before her, but opted to wait for the free service at home. As the days passed, though, she grew increasingly concerned that the stigma and deep divisions surrounding the issue would result in a rocky introduction of the service.The hardest part of the process for her was having to travel to another town to see her doctor and wait for three days as part of a mandatory “cooling off” period that has no medical basis but was written into the law to placate anti-abortion politicians.“I could have gone back home for those days, it was only a 40-minute drive, but I didn’t want to be around anyone that I knew,” she said. “I was worried that if anyone found out they would try to change my mind, and I suppose that’s what those three days are for.”One of the biggest complaints about the new legislation is that it requires doctors who agree to perform abortions to opt in to the service, rather than having doctors opt out if they object to it.So far, in a country with over 4,000 general practitioners of medicine, more than 200 doctors have signed up to provide the procedure — enough to meet current demand, health executives say — but the system has left women having to guess whether their local doctors are for or against the service.“We’re back in hushed tones,” Erin Darcy, an abortion rights activist, said in an interview at her home near the harbor city of Galway on Ireland’s west coast. In those days, she said, it was taboo even to utter the word abortion.Sitting across from her at the kitchen table, her friend Gina recalled going to a family planning clinic in Galway 13 years ago and saying, “I’m pregnant and I need to not be.”In secrecy, Gina ended up traveling alone to the Netherlands to get the procedure. Even when she came back and developed a post-abortive infection that caused her to hemorrhage at work and spend four days in the hospital, she told no one.“Now, we’re in a position where we have to approach our doctors in a nice, smiley way and try and figure out what side they are on, if we can talk about it,” she said with a sarcastic laugh. “Will they help me knowing I’m pro-choice, or am I going to have to find a new G.P. because now I can’t trust them to care for me?”Irish women are not entirely on their own. The government has set up an anonymous support line to help them navigate the new system. But even that service got off to an unsteady start after the lines were jammed by anti-abortion activists posing as women seeking abortions so they could identify doctors willing to assist in the procedures and picket their clinics.“Generally speaking, women’s health services in Ireland have been underfunded for many years,” said Dr. Peter Boylan, an adviser to the Irish Department of Health. “This is a new service that is coming in on top of an already existing service, which is stretched, so that’s causing challenges.”At the fake abortion clinic in Dublin with the giant poster out front — a place called My Options, the same name as the government’s abortion information service — its director, Eamonn Murphy, recalled the shock of the referendum and how it spurred him into action.“It was kind of a crucifixion moment,” he said. “But there was a resurrection the same day,” when he decided to establish his operation on an inner-city street, where it is often confused with a women’s health center next door.“This is new life,” he continued, as he shuffled through pictures of dead fetuses and studies purporting to link abortion to breast cancer that he shows to women seeking abortions. “This meant more women than ever would be saved from cancer and suicide and depression and drug addiction and abandonment than ever before this law came in.”In recent weeks, anti-abortion activists have staged a series of “silent protests” outside medical centers.Maria Mahoney, an anti-abortion activist and classics teacher, participates in protests outside the Galvia West Medical Center in Galway several times a week in hopes of persuading some of the women to bring their baby to term.“We are hoping that the women will engage with us like they do in other countries,” she said. “Sometimes they are just looking for someone to tell them not to do it and show them a better way.”The stakeouts have spread so widely that abortion rights groups have begun calling for “exclusion zones” around abortion facilities.Dr. Caitriona Henchion, the medical director of the Irish Family Planning Association, which provides legitimate abortion services, said the main aim of the protests was to intimidate doctors.“People are really afraid, I think particularly in rural parts,” she said at her clinic, which has been at capacity since the service started at the beginning of the year. “Doctors sending their kids to the local school don’t want them to be abused or shouted at because it becomes known that their mother or father is offering abortion services.”The clinic has been working around the clock to ensure that women do not miss the 12-week mark that would force them to go abroad for the procedure. Although the services are running far more smoothly now than they were at the beginning of the month, Dr. Henchion said, many women still worry about the limited options in some facilities, especially at hospitals, and the continuing difficulty in getting an abortion.“I was one of the first women to get an abortion in Ireland,” Arlene, the woman who had to travel to a town 40 minutes away for the procedure, said. “I know this is huge, but my case was pretty straightforward, and even then it was complicated.”“The fact that women are still traveling shows that there are problems with the legislation,” she said. “I’m sure that once everyone catches their breath from the referendum, there will be protests.”And abortion rights groups fear they can already see the first stirrings of a sustained effort to overturn the results of the referendum, along the lines of the anti-abortion movement in the United States. Earlier this month, Peadar Toibin, a former member of the Sinn Fein party who left over his stance on abortion, established an anti-abortion party that aims to give political representation to the movement.AdvertisementSupported byThe Affordable Care Act touches the lives of most Americans. Some 21 million could lose health insurance if the Trump administration were to succeed in having the law ruled unconstitutional. By Reed Abelson, Abby Goodnough and Robert PearThe Affordable Care Act was already in peril after a federal judge in Texas invalidated the entire law late last year. But the stakes ramped up again this week, when President Trump’s Justice Department announced it had changed its position and agreed with the judge that the entire law, not just three pieces of it, should be scrapped.A coalition of states is appealing the ruling. If it is upheld, tens of millions more people would be affected than those who already rely on the nine-year-old law for health insurance. Also known as Obamacare, the law touches the lives of most Americans, from nursing mothers to people eating at chain restaurants.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Here are some potential consequences, based on estimates by various groups.Of the 23 million people who either buy health insurance through the marketplaces set up by the law (11.4 million) or receive coverage through the expansion of Medicaid (12 million), about 21 million are most at risk if Obamacare is struck down. That includes 9.2 million who receive federal subsidies. On average, the subsidies covered $525 of a $612 monthly premium for customers in the 39 states that use the federal marketplace, HealthCare.gov, according to a new report from the Department of Health and Human Services. If the marketplaces and subsidies go away, a comprehensive health plan would become unaffordable for most of those people and many of them would become uninsured.States could not possibly replace the full amount of federal subsidies with state funds.Medicaid, the government insurance program for the poor that is jointly funded by the federal government and the states, has been the workhorse of Obamacare. If the health law were struck down, more than 12 million low-income adults who have gained Medicaid coverage through the law’s expansion of the program could lose it. In all, according to the Urban Institute, enrollment in the program would drop by more than 15 million, including roughly three million children who got Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program when their parents signed up for coverage.The law ensures that states will never have to pay more than 10 percent of costs for their expanded Medicaid population; few if any states would be able to pick up the remaining 90 percent to keep their programs going. Over all, the federal government’s tab was $62 billion last year, according to the Congressional Budget Office.Losing free health insurance would, of course, also mean worse access to care and, quite possibly, worse health for the millions who would be affected. Among other things, studies have found that Medicaid expansion has led to better access to preventive screenings, medications and mental health services.The health law took effect just as the opioid epidemic was spreading to all corners of the country, and health officials in many states say that one of its biggest benefits has been providing access to addiction treatment. It requires insurance companies to cover substance abuse treatment, and they could stop if the law were struck down. The biggest group able to access addiction treatment under the law is adults who have gained Medicaid coverage. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that 40 percent of people from 18 to 65 with opioid addiction — roughly 800,000 — are on Medicaid, many or most of whom became eligible for it through the health law. Kaiser also found that in 2016, Americans with Medicaid coverage were twice as likely as those with no insurance to receive any treatment for addiction.States with expanded Medicaid are spending much more on medications that treat opioid addiction than they used to. From 2013 through 2017, Medicaid spending on prescriptions for two medications that treat opioid addiction more than doubled: It reached $874 million, up from nearly $358 million in 2013, according to the Urban Institute.The growing insured population in many states has also drawn more treatment providers, including methadone clinics, inpatient programs and primary care doctors who prescribe two other anti-craving medications, buprenorphine and naltrexone. These significant expansions of addiction care could shrink if the law were struck down, leaving a handful of federal grant programs as the main sources of funds. As many as 133 million Americans — roughly half the population under the age of 65 — have pre-existing medical conditions that could disqualify them from buying a health insurance policy or cause them to pay significantly higher premiums if the health law were overturned, according to a government analysis done in 2017. An existing medical condition includes such common ailments as high blood pressure or asthma, any of which could require someone buying insurance on their own to pay much more for a policy, if they could get one at all.Under the A.C.A., no one can be denied coverage under any circumstance, and insurance companies cannot retroactively cancel a policy unless they find evidence of fraud. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that 52 million people have conditions serious enough that insurers would outright deny them coverage if the A.C.A. were not in effect, according to an analysis it did two years ago. Its estimates are based on the guidelines insurers had in place about whom to cover before the federal law was enacted.Most Americans would still be able to get coverage under a plan provided by an employer or under a federal program, as they did before the law was passed, but protections for pre-existing conditions are particularly important to those who want to start their own businesses or retire early. Employers would sometimes refuse to cover certain conditions, and companies would have to decide if they would drop any of the conditions they are now required to cover.The need to protect people with existing medical conditions from discrimination by insurers was a central theme in the midterm elections, and Democrats attributed much of their success in reclaiming control of the House of Representatives to voters’ desire to safeguard those protections. Many Republicans also promised to keep this provision of the law, although exactly how was unclear. Before the law, some individuals were sent to high-risk pools operated by states, but even that coverage was often inadequate.The 156 million Americans who get coverage through an employer, as well as the roughly 15 million enrolled in Obamacare and other plans in the individual insurance market, are protected from caps that insurers and employers used to limit how much they had to pay out in coverage each year or over a lifetime. Before the A.C.A., people with conditions like cancer or hemophilia that were very expensive to treat often faced enormous out-of-pocket costs once their medical bills reached these caps.While not all health coverage was capped, most companies had some sort of limit in place in 2009. A 2017 Brookings analysis estimated that 109 million people would face lifetime limits on their coverage without the health law, with some companies saying they would cover no more than $1 million in medical bills per employee. The vast majority of people never hit those limits, but some who did were forced into bankruptcy or went without treatment.About 60 million people are covered under Medicare, the federal insurance program that covers people over 65 years old and people with disabilities. Even though the main aim of the A.C.A. was to overhaul the health insurance markets, the law “touches virtually every part of Medicare,” said Tricia Neuman, a senior vice president for the Kaiser Family Foundation, which did an analysis of the law’s repeal. Overturning the law would be “very disruptive,” she said.Medicare beneficiaries would have to pay more for preventive care, like a wellness visit or diabetes check, which are now free. They would also have to pay more toward their prescription drugs. About five million people faced the so-called Medicare doughnut hole, or coverage gap, in 2016, which the A.C.A. sought to eliminate. If the law were overturned, that coverage gap would widen again.The law also made other changes, like cutting the amount the federal government paid hospitals and other providers as well as private Medicare Advantage plans. Undoing the cuts could increase the program’s overall costs by hundreds of millions of dollars, according to Ms. Neuman. Premiums for as many as 55 million people under the program could go up as a result.The A.C.A. was also responsible for promoting experiments into new ways of paying hospitals and doctors, creating vehicles like accountable care organizations to help hospitals, doctors and others to better coordinate patients’ care. If the groups save Medicare money on the care they provide, they get to keep some of those savings. About 12 million people are now enrolled in these Medicare groups, and it is unclear what would happen to these experiments if the law were deemed unconstitutional. Some of Mr. Trump’s initiatives, like the efforts to lower drug prices, would also be hindered without the federal authority established under the A.C.A.The A.C.A. required employers to cover their employees’ children under the age of 26, and it is one of the law’s most popular provisions. Roughly two million young adults are covered under a parent’s insurance plan, according to a 2016 government estimate. If the law were struck down, employers would have to decide if they would continue to offer the coverage. Dorian Smith, a partner at Mercer, a benefits consulting firm, predicted that many companies would most likely continue.Doctors and hospitals could lose a crucial source of revenue, as some people lose insurance. The Urban Institute estimated that nationwide, without the A.C.A., the cost of care for people who cannot pay for it could increase as much as $50.2 billion.Hospitals and other medical providers would incur losses, as many now have higher revenues and reduced costs for uncompensated care in states that expanded Medicaid. A study in 2017 by the Commonwealth Fund found that for every dollar of uncompensated care costs those states had in 2013, the health law had erased 40 cents by 2015, or a total of $6.2 billion.The health insurance industry would be upended by the elimination of A.C.A. requirements. Insurers in many markets could again deny coverage or charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing medical conditions, and they could charge higher rates to women. States could still regulate insurance, but consumers would see more variation from state to state. Insurers would also probably see lower revenues and fewer members in the plans they operate in the individual market and for state Medicaid programs.The A.C.A. requires nutrition labeling and calorie counts on menu items at chain restaurants.It requires many employers to provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk.It created a pathway for federal approval of biosimilars, which are near-copies of biologic drugs, made from living cells.China DailyAdvertisementShareBrand awareness just as valuable as products for consumers. Su Lei still remembers his frustration as he tried to sell medical devices from Chinese manufacturer Mindray to hospitals in the United Kingdom a decade ago.“I was out the door in five minutes. I didn’t have much to say except that our products were good and were cheap. When they asked if we had existing U.K. customers, I didn’t really have much to add,” said Su, general manager of Mindray U.K.A decade later, Mindray has established a solid brand in the U.K., recognized for quality and innovation. It supplies equipment to more than half of the U.K.’s approximately 700 public hospitals, and its revenue over the past three years has grown by 25 percent on average.Mindray’s breakthroughs in the U.K.’s quality-led medical devices market are a testament to the emphasis the company has placed on building a strong brand.The challenge it faced cannot be underestimated. Not only was the company’s name unfamiliar to most U.K. medical experts, it also had to work extra hard to overcome the perception of cheap “made in China” products.To establish its brand, Mindray first focused on satisfying U.K. hospitals’ targeted needs through significant research and development. In recent years, for example, the company has modified its equipment in response to the emphasis of Britain’s National Health Service on data and information integration.This new focus means monitoring machines need to be updated to transfer data to patients’ records automatically. Traditionally, medical staff members have to read the data and transcribe it into the records, which is more costly and prone to error.In addition to competitive products, Mindray formed a dedicated customer service team in the U.K. to provide timely assistance to users, and increased media engagement and participation in medical fairs. It also regularly hosted many medical industry events to enable its customers to share their experiences of using the company’s products.Su said, “Now that we’ve built a brand, maintaining consistency and enhancing our image is particularly important, especially at a time when China is increasing its globalization efforts.”Mindray’s successful story highlights Chinese companies’ recognition of the importance of branding in securing new customers as they expand overseas.Peter Williamson, an honorary professor of international management at the Cambridge Judge Business School in the U.K., said, “In the past, Chinese companies tended to focus on product performance and price, but as they have gone abroad, they have realized it is difficult to compete overseas without a strong brand.”Chinese companies have stepped up their branding efforts significantly in recent years. Last year, 14 such companies made it to WPP’s global 100 brands rankings list, including the e-commerce giant Alibaba and internet company Tencent. This is a huge advance, as just one Chinese company featured on the list in 2006.Meanwhile, WPP, a U.K. multinational advertising and public relations company, calculated that the top 100 Chinese brands last year had a combined value of $683.9 billion, year-on-year growth of 23 percent, and a 179 percent expansion of their total value in 2010.WPP calculated brand value by combining financial data with consumer opinions gathered from interviews with more than 400,000 Chinese to give a dollar value to how a brand powers business.Narrative neededDespite the fast growth, a report published by the consultancy Brunswick in February concluded that Chinese companies still have significant capacity to boost brand values by further communicating their mission and core philosophy more proactively, especially as they engage increasingly in international activities amid trade friction.The report, compiled through surveying 7,500 members of the public in 18 countries where Chinese companies had significant investments last year, found that although 67 percent of respondents had heard information about Chinese companies over the past year, only 12 percent had heard details directly from them.The report found that the more information a company shares about itself with the public, the more likely it is to generate a favorable public perception. Of the respondents who said they had heard “a lot” about Chinese companies, 80 percent were favorable toward them and 83 percent trusted them.Rory Macpherson, a partner at Brunswick Group, said: “There is a clear need to develop a purpose-driven narrative that is supported by communications activities in global markets where Chinese companies are operating or eyeing expansion.”Public perception of Chinese companies also determines the success rate of their overseas acquisitions, which the companies view as a faster route to markets compared to organic investments.Peter Zysk, a director of Brunswick Group, said: “Public perception of Chinese companies is hugely important, because sometimes this can determine if a deal can happen, and can impact on deal prices. It can also impact on the regulatory approval process and the success of post-merger integration.”James Hebbert, managing director of marketing company Hylink U.K., said that fundamentally there has been a shift in mindset as Chinese companies increasingly recognize the importance and consistency of brand strategy, especially as “digital and affordable travel is making the world smaller”.For example, Chinese carmaker BYD has linked its brand image with sustainability and innovation by focusing on supplying electric taxis and buses in 300 cities in more than 50 countries and regions. The endorsement its effort has received from various governments has become “a badge of confidence” for its sustainability image, Hebbert said.A BYD spokesman said the company has also invested in many factories in overseas markets such as the United States, Brazil, Hungary and France as a part of its efforts to increase global visibility and demonstrate commitment. “We’re striving to build an international brand instead of being perceived as a Chinese brand,” the spokesman said.Chinese mobile payment platform Alipay has backed its brand image of “finlife”－a term the company coined to suggest the accessibility of fintech, or financial technology, in everyday life－by actively delivering new solutions to make digital payment more accessible overseas.Alexander Yin, chief financial officer at TGC, the parent of ePassi, a Finnish electronic payment company collaborating with Alipay, said, “Joint efforts with Alipay opened my eyes to a new world.”When Alipay collaborated with ePassi to roll out its payment terminals in Finland, the two companies created a solution to introduce e-payment technology to Finnish taxis for the first time. Alipay users can scan a QR code sticker in each taxi, manually key in the amount they need to pay, and this sends payment directly to the ePassi accounts of the cab company.Alipay has worked with ePassi to create solutions to satisfy the needs of Finnish shops, restaurants, hotels and airlines. The increasing popularity of Alipay in the country has become a positive enforcement of its “finlife” brand image.Challenges remainDespite Chinese companies’ recognition of the importance of branding, many are still on a “trial and error” journey to understand how to effectively build a positive brand, and some have learned their lessons the hard way.One example is the private company Sanpower Group in Nanjing, Jiangsu province, which acquired a majority stake in the iconic U.K. department store House of Fraser in 2014.Sanpower chairman Yuan Yafei was perhaps too quick to announce his ambitious plans to launch 50 new House of Fraser stores in China, because when this target was not met, his words were cited in various U.K. media outlets as the basis for skepticism in the brand, especially when Sanpower last year announced the closure of 31 House of Fraser stores in the U.K., affecting 6,000 jobs.Another example of an ineffective branding campaign came when Chinese smartphone maker Xiaomi made an embarrassing mistake in launching a “flash sale” promotional activity when it entered the U.K. market last year.Xiaomi did not clarify its promotional activity from the outset. As a result, the campaign was viewed by U.K. consumers as misleading, and left thousands of potential buyers disappointed. The incident attracted dozens of user complaints on Facebook and Twitter, leading to negative media coverage before the company had even established its presence in the U.K.Olive Hou, founder of London marketing agency Olive’s Choice Creative, said this incident highlights the importance of understanding cultural sensitivities when Chinese companies expand abroad.“In this case, Xiaomi should have explained the rules of its flash sale from the beginning, to provide transparency and clarity. This is particularly important for the U.K. market, where consumers care very much about rules, procedures and fairness,” Hou said.Hebbert, from Hylink U.K., agreed, adding: “Marketing tactics used to make certain products appear more scarce are used by established brands all the time, such as Apple. But because Xiaomi is a newcomer to the U.K. market, it should focus on a solid foundation first.”AdvertisementSupported byHis definition of national greatness included a commitment to improving health care. A century after his death, we should follow his lead.By Patricia O’TooleMs. O’Toole, the author of “When Trumpets Call: Theodore Roosevelt After the White House,” is writing a book about Theodore Roosevelt and American health.Theodore Roosevelt died 100 years ago Sunday, on Jan. 6, 1919, at his home in Oyster Bay, N.Y. A pulmonary embolism, the doctors said.Americans found it hard to believe that Roosevelt was dead, much less that he had died in bed. For as long as they could remember, he had lived at full tilt. He was the frontiersman who faced down a grizzly, the Rough Rider who fought in the Spanish-American War, the presidential candidate who made a speech with a fresh bullet wound in his chest.The heroics thrilled countless American boys of the era — Ernest Hemingway among them — and their elders had cheered in 1899 when Roosevelt exhorted the country to get off its duff and take up “the strenuous life.” Toil, effort, high-minded endeavor — these were the things that made life worth living, in his opinion. If Americans surrendered to “ignoble ease,” he warned, they would never achieve national greatness.A century later, that is still how most Americans remember him. But a quieter part of his legacy also deserves to be celebrated, especially in an era of incessant discord over health care. Few Americans know that their most physically vigorous president was also the first major American political figure to advocate passionately for national health insurance. Theodore Roosevelt may have inspired he-men later in life, but he began life in delicate health, a fact he never forgot. Born in 1858, he soon developed asthma. In that era, asthmatics lived entirely at the mercy of their disease, not knowing when it would strike or if an attack would prove fatal. Roosevelt took up bodybuilding in his early teens, and as often happens, the asthma abated as he reached adulthood. Emerging from the ordeal as a fine physical specimen, he took pride in his strength, and for the rest of his life would exalt strength in nations as well as in men.If Roosevelt’s presidency had to be summed up in a word, “strength” would serve. He strengthened the office of the presidency as well as the regulatory power of the federal government. He refereed the unending contest between capital and labor, arguing that only the national government had enough power to ensure fair play. His foreign policy has been intelligently praised and intelligently damned, but beyond question, it strengthened the United States in world affairs in the opening decade of the 20th century.So great was Roosevelt’s preoccupation with strength that nearly all of his biographers have felt obliged to explain it. Most have seen it as a response to his childhood illness, and some have suggested that the early delicacy left him with insecurities about his masculinity. One example cited by the prosecution: “Sissy” was a favorite Rooseveltian insult. Another: He would not be photographed on the tennis court, because the game was played by women as well as by men.Given the vast attention paid to the causes of Roosevelt’s love of strength, there is a surprising lack of discussion about one of its most attractive effects: an exceptional sensitivity to the needs of the sick and others in the grip of circumstances beyond their control. Roosevelt’s efforts on behalf of workers exploited by employers have been well chronicled, but from his earliest days in politics until the last months of his life, he worked equally hard to improve the health of his fellow citizens. Who knew?The hole in the story is partly Roosevelt’s fault. His concern for public health crops up only a few times in his autobiography, and the stories told are presented as discrete episodes, not illustrations of a long commitment. In the first, he is a 23-year-old Republican freshman in the New York State Assembly, fighting for a ban on homemade cigars. As the representative of Manhattan’s silk stocking district, Roosevelt was expected to be a laissez-faire man, against government interference in business. But when he visited cigar makers in their tenements, he was appalled to find whole families suffering from eye, skin and lung ailments caused by prolonged exposure to raw tobacco. Roosevelt decided to champion a proposed ban and persuaded the Legislature to pass the bill. But a judge soon ruled that the new statute violated the sanctity of home. The decision gave Roosevelt his first taste of the opposition in store for politicians who challenged the untrammeled capitalism of the day.At 39, as Col. Roosevelt of the Rough Riders, he pressed for the speedy departure of American troops from Cuba at the end of the Spanish-American War. The War Department had wanted the troops to stay until a peace treaty was signed, but Washington relented when Roosevelt pointed out that the soldiers were at high risk of dying from disease. He was right: Ninety percent of the American war dead in Cuba had succumbed to yellow fever, malaria and poor sanitation.Eight years later, President Roosevelt won passage of the Meat Inspection Act and the Pure Food and Drug Act. He succeeded by seizing on public outrage over a best-selling novel, “The Jungle” by Upton Sinclair, which had exposed the stomach-turning conditions in Chicago’s meatpacking plants. Signed on the same day in 1906, the laws were milestones in health and in federal regulation of business for the public good.Apart from those measures, Roosevelt had little success in persuading Congress to enact more laws to improve health. Though he fought on, he found himself up against a host of entrenched forces: a public suspicious of governmental power, the judiciary’s habit of treating social legislation as an infringement on individual liberties and the South’s alarm at the growing power of the national government. As president, Roosevelt was aware that the governments of Germany, France and Britain had set up programs to help their citizens stave off the financial catastrophes associated with old age, illness, injury, unemployment and loss of a breadwinner. He was embarrassed that the United States had nothing comparable. The idea of using the government’s strength to assist those unable to fend for themselves seemed to him a mark of national greatness. And there were few things he coveted more than Europe’s recognition of American greatness.Unable to make any legislative progress on this front, Roosevelt resorted to other tactics. He issued dozens of executive orders creating federal wildlife refuges on public land, a move that protected animals and reduced pollution. He also made liberal use of presidential commissions. The Inland Waterways Commission was established in 1907 to manage the nation’s lakes and rivers and to develop their potential as a transportation network. The ostensible goals were economic, but the plan also called for flood control, soil reclamation and pollution abatement — all boons to public health.Toward the end of his presidency, Roosevelt appointed a White House commission to study the problems of rural life. Among the chief topics of the group’s report was the poor state of health in the hinterlands. Farms ought to be healthy places to live, the commissioners wrote, but doctors and nurses were scarce, and most rural Americans had not been schooled in the rudiments of hygiene. While some states had public health departments, many did not. And because of widespread antipathy to federal power, officials could not intervene except to address outbreaks of disease among farm animals. Treading softly, the commission made only mild recommendations: basic education in hygiene and sanitation, and a promise of federal help in health matters if a state requested it.Roosevelt also invented the White House conference, giving himself yet another way to act without Congress. In 1908 he hosted a conference of governors, focused on conservation, and nearly every governor present went home and formed a state conservation commission. The experience was a victory for conservation and public health, and it offered a model for federal-state collaboration on matters affecting the well-being of all Americans.The most notable of Roosevelt’s White House conferences, on dependent children, took place a few weeks before he left office. The idea came from a young lawyer who had grown up in an orphanage and was pressing for governmental subsidies to widowed mothers, whose poverty often forced them to place their children in orphanages. Roosevelt issued the invitations on Dec. 25, 1908, a date surely not chosen at random.On Jan. 25, 1909, Jane Addams, Booker T. Washington, and some 200 child welfare advocates, juvenile court judges, directors of orphanages and leaders of social service organizations turned out for the White House Conference on the Care of Dependent Children. Considered a landmark in American social policy, the conference led to the establishment of the United States Children’s Bureau, spurred the growth of adoption agencies and inspired the founding the Child Welfare League of America.When Roosevelt left office, on March 4, his files were thick with correspondence from social activists, urban reformers, physicians and others who shared his belief that the federal government ought to play a larger role in advancing health and well-being. On a two-month tour of Europe in 1910, he made a point of meeting politicians and social reformers who had helped to put up the first government-sponsored social safety nets. Two years later, disturbed by the Republicans’ drift to the political right, Roosevelt defected from the G.O.P., formed the National Progressive Party, and made a rogue run for an unprecedented third term in the White House (he entered office in 1901, after William McKinley was assassinated). With the insights he gained in Europe and the help of American experts on health and welfare, he and his allies crafted one of the most socially progressive party platforms in American history. It called for universal health insurance; a national public health service; insurance for the elderly, the unemployed and the disabled; the end of child labor; the abolition of the seven-day workweek; and a minimum wage ample enough to support a family of four, provide for recreation and allow savings for a rainy day.After losing the election, Roosevelt continued to engage in politics through hundreds of newspaper columns and magazine articles. The social agenda of his 1912 platform lived on, inspiring progressives of both parties. And with the Social Security Act of 1935, Franklin Roosevelt secured much of what his distant cousin Theodore had been striving for: old-age insurance, unemployment insurance, aid to families with dependent children, and support for the disabled. Opposition from the medical profession blocked the path to national health insurance, and opposition from the South ensured that Social Security would exclude domestic and agricultural labor, major occupations of African-Americans.Theodore Roosevelt was not perfect. He was not progressive on race. Nor was he in the vanguard of the fight for a constitutional amendment giving all American women the right to vote. Despite his many collaborations with women reformers working to address the needs of the sick and the poor, he would always believe that a woman’s true place was in the home.Roosevelt’s efforts in the field of health yielded more defeats than triumphs. No politician relishes defeat, but as the preacher of the risk-taking strenuous life, he could hardly whine about his losses. Ultimately he decided that the man who mattered most was the man in the arena, taking his lumps and carrying on. Such a man might make mistakes, Roosevelt said, and he might come up short, but he is striving valiantly, spending himself in a worthy cause, and “if he fails, he at least fails while daring greatly.”If life dealt Theodore Roosevelt the high cards of wealth and privilege, the long suit of his boyhood was a life-threatening illness. The experience might have produced a man who lived on his inheritance and shied away from all things strenuous. This boy, willing and able to make himself strong, entered the political arena and fought against long odds for the health and well-being of his fellow citizens — a worthy cause if ever there was one. There may be no better way for the country to honor his memory than to get off its duff and persevere until all Americans have decent health care.AdvertisementSupported byWhile New York City schools are deeply segregated, some black families are choosing an alternative to integration.By Eliza Shapiro[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]“I love myself!” the group of mostly black children shouted in unison. “I love my hair, I love my skin!” When it was time to settle down, their teacher raised her fist in a black power salute. The students did the same, and the room hushed. As children filed out of the cramped school auditorium on their way to class, they walked by posters of Colin Kaepernick and Harriet Tubman.It was a typical morning at Ember Charter School in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, an Afrocentric school that sits in a squat building on a quiet block in a neighborhood long known as a center of black political power. Though New York City has tried to desegregate its schools in fits and starts since the 1954 Supreme Court ruling in Brown v. Board of Education, the school system is now one of the most segregated in the nation. But rather than pushing for integration, some black parents in Bedford-Stuyvesant are choosing an alternative: schools explicitly designed for black children.Afrocentric schools have been championed by black educators who had traumatic experiences with integration as far back as the 1960s and by young black families who say they recently experienced coded racism and marginalization in integrated schools. Both groups have been disappointed by decades of efforts to address inequities in America’s largest school system.“Some of us are pro-integration, some of us are anti- and others are ambivalent,” said Lurie Daniel Favors, a member of Parenting While Black, a newly formed group of Brooklyn parents. “Even if integrated education worked perfectly — and our society spent the past 60-plus years trying — it’s still not giving black children the kind of education necessary to create the solutions our communities need.”Children of any race may apply to an Afrocentric school, though they are overwhelmingly black. Some have sizable numbers of Hispanic students — Ember, which goes from kindergarten to eighth grade and is about a third Hispanic, incorporates Spanish into the students’ morning affirmation — but the schools typically have few or no white applicants. The half-dozen or so Afrocentric schools in central Brooklyn, in which about 2,300 children are enrolled, include private and charter schools, which require applications and do not admit students through geographical zones, and public high schools, which are also unzoned. The schools are run and staffed mostly by people of color, and tend to have high graduation rates and standardized test scores at or above the city average.With the city’s approval, any principal can adopt a black-centric curriculum — with black teachers, and a focus on black culture in literature, history and art classes — as long as the school complies with state educational standards. Though Afrocentric schools have a uniquely comprehensive approach, many of New York’s 1,800 public schools have specialized themes. There are engineering, math and culinary schools. Others have Albanian, Urdu or Bengali bilingual programs. Afrocentric schools aim to empower black children in ways that traditional schools in America historically have not. Though integration advocates want the same, some parents and educators across the country believe high-quality Afrocentric schools can achieve that goal in a different way — by asserting black power, pride and excellence close to home.And though a recent study found that some Afrocentric charter schools are low-performing, they remain popular among parents and many educators. Milwaukee and Chicago both have prominent black-centric charter schools. In Georgia, some black parents have decided to home-school their children to help ensure they learn about black history. New Afrocentric public schools and programs have recently sprouted in Washington, D.C., and Oakland, CalifBut even as the concept is spreading, decades of research have shown that integration can redistribute resources across schools and thus boost academic performance, and experts warned that abandoning integration could backfire. “Segregation leads to inequality,” said Andre Perry, a fellow at the Brookings Institution. “You can’t just do that away. If you’re going to ignore this issue, it will come back to haunt you.” Bedford-Stuyvesant, home to tree-lined, brownstone-filled blocks, is experiencing a surge of interest in schools like Ember, as evidenced by new parent groups and increasing enrollment. Interviews with more than 30 parents, school officials and community leaders, along with visits to schools and parent meetings in central Brooklyn, found growing enthusiasm for the schools, particularly in light of the city’s renewed debate about integration. “We were really aware in the beginning that it wasn’t going to be enough to be a really good school,” said Alisa Nutakor, the school’s dean of students, as she wove through Ember’s bright yellow and red hallways.Instead, Ms. Nutakor’s goal was to offer minority students the same opportunities as white children in private schools. That has meant sending dozens of middle-school students to South Africa for six weeks, and forgoing strict discipline in favor of strong mental health services. And on a recent Friday, it meant that Ember’s third and fourth graders were watching a clip of Beyoncé’s 2016 Super Bowl halftime performance. Tanequa Neale, Ember’s dean of culture, asked the students, “Does the song make me feel beautiful, or better about myself?”When Beyoncé sang, “You just might be a black Bill Gates in the making,” the children seemed to agree it passed the test.Richard A. Carranza, the city’s schools chancellor, said he is eager to expand a debate he helped start about stark inequalities in schools — even if some black parents don’t agree that integration is the answer.“Often when you talk about integration, it’s about taking black kids out of their schools and sending them  into white schools,” he said in an interview. “Rarely is it about, ‘How do you have other kids come into traditionally black schools and find value?’“If there’s a school that says that’s what we want to focus on,” he said, referring to Afrocentric schools, “I think we should be very supportive of that.”Bedford-Stuyvesant’s traditional public schools — most of which do not have expressly Afrocentric classes — are overwhelmingly black and mostly low-performing. About three-quarters of the neighborhood’s parents, including many middle-class black parents, send their children to schools in different districts. In interviews, some parents said they would be more likely to stay if there were more Afrocentric options.As school segregation has become entwined with New York City’s broader reckoning with inequality, some districts recently adopted modest desegregation plans — changing school zones and setting aside seats for low-income children — that have made some schools marginally more diverse.But fraught debates have often revolved around the hopes and anxieties of white parents in middle-class, diverse neighborhoods. Several meetings on the Upper West Side and Downtown Brooklyn have included white parents screaming and sobbing about the prospect of their children losing a seat in a classroom they had thought was guaranteed. Bedford-Stuyvesant offers a glimpse of how the rest of the city is grappling with a school system that produces winners and losers. Kara Benton-Smith, a mother of two in Bedford-Stuyvesant, found her perfect school when she opened the front door of Little Sun People, a private preschool. She saw a painting of a black woman in the hallway, and it felt like home.Soon, Ms. Benton-Smith’s daughter was taking school trips to the Apollo Theater and reciting the principles of Kwanzaa. For her toddler, “It was very matter-of-fact that being black is cool,” Ms. Benton-Smith said.Many of the Brooklyn parents pushing for Afrocentric schools first connected at Little Sun People, and their movement has grown in part out of the one-room school on Fulton Street. The school’s founder, Fela Barclift, said she’s spent years telling parents that they can demand more Afrocentric public schools when their children graduate to kindergarten. “When you leave here and you’re going out there, that’s what you’re looking for,” said Ms. Barclift, known to all as Mama Fela. “And if you don’t find it, then you are going to put pressure.”Ms. Barclift opened her school on an empty floor of her Bedford-Stuyvesant brownstone in 1981, long before nearby homes started to sell for millions of dollars. She, like Ms. Benton-Smith, couldn’t find a preschool that reflected “blackness or African heritage,” she said.“I was like, ‘You know what, I’m going to make a school in here,”’ Ms. Barclift said. She brought in a Swahili teacher and spent hours hunched over children’s books with a brown crayon, coloring in the faces and hair of the white characters. Little Sun People represents an alternative to a type of integration Ms. Barclift has hoped to avoid since she was a child.In the 1960s, her two younger siblings were bused from Bedford-Stuyvesant to Bay Ridge, then a largely white Brooklyn neighborhood, where they were spat on and called names. “School was a tragic experience for them,” said Ms. Barclift.At Little Sun People, she said, “You see you.”Decades after Ms. Barclift wrestled with the impact of integration on her family, Ms. Benton-Smith and the other members of Parenting While Black are similarly ambivalent about what integration can offer their children.They don’t believe integration can succeed unless all schools are responsive to the needs of black and Hispanic students — which they say requires new curriculums, more teachers of color, and a strong emphasis on culture and identity. For kindergarten, Lurie Daniel Favors enrolled her son in a diverse school outside of Bedford-Stuyvesant. Things began to go awry in third grade, when, she said, a white child called her son a “slave” and took issue with his comment that the ancient Greeks were inspired by ancient Egyptian innovations. The white student told his parents that Ms. Favors’s son was calling him racist. The white student’s parents called the school, Ms. Favors said, and the school demanded that her son apologize to his classmate.Ms. Favors said she and her husband spent the following day explaining to the administration why that was unfair. Her son now attends a mostly black middle school."Even in a school that’s integrated, even in a school that’s high-performing, not all boats are rising,” said Mutale Nkonde, another member of the group, whose children have attended integrated schools. “When I'm looking at integration, I’m actually seeing it as a threat to resources being visited on your child if they don't fall within a certain subset.”When Rafiq Kalam al-Din II created Ember, he wanted to avoid that dynamic. “Who’s mad at diversity? Nobody’s mad at more different people getting along — that’s a beautiful thing,” he said. “But if we use it as a strategy for solving the educational crisis in this community, it’s totally misapplied.” Mr. Perry of the Brookings Institution believes integration advocates and skeptics alike share the same elusive goal. “I think most people who want integration are really interested in breaking up the structures of inequality,” he said. Rashad Meade, the principal of Eagle Academy for Young Men II in Brownsville, a public school created to educate boys of color, has spent his career experimenting with ways to do just that. After running the school for a few years, Mr. Meade discovered that his students needed a strong sense of black pride in order to thrive in mostly white spaces after graduation. “Some of our young men didn’t really know who they were,” he said, sitting in his office under a sign that a showed a red slash through the phrase “N Word.”So three years ago, Mr. Meade created an identity course, revised the black studies curriculum and added books by black and Hispanic authors to English courses.AdvertisementSupported byTeenagers in The TimesBy The Learning NetworkWelcome to the first 2019 edition of Teenagers in The Times. This roundup of the news and feature stories about young people that have recently appeared across sections of NYTimes.com appears on the first Thursday of each month during the school year.For ideas about how to use Teenagers in The Times with your students, please see our lesson plan and special activity sheet, both of which can be used with this or any other edition._________EducationStudent Targeted by ‘Troll Storm’ Hopes Settlement Will Send Message to White SupremacistsEvan James McCarty said he would renounce white supremacy and apologize to Taylor Dumpson, who endured abuse after she was elected student body president at American University.Teaching Children Regardless of GradeEducators in a remote valley in India devised a community approach to instructing students when teachers were sparse. As this Opinion essay states, it’s catching on.‘I Feel Invisible’: Native Students Languish in Public SchoolsAt Wolf Point High School in rural Montana, Native American students face the same neglect Native students across the U.S. do as they navigate a school system that has failed American Indians.Throwing Open the Schoolhouse Doors, Once and For All“We can send every child to school by 2030. Here’s how to pay for it,” according to the writer of this Opinion essay.Their Plans Derailed by a Wildfire, Seniors at Paradise High School Wonder What’s NextIn the weeks since California’s deadliest wildfire, the senior class of Paradise High School is scattered across the region and country, their post-graduation plans disrupted.Anchorage Goes Back to School After an EarthquakeSome 48,000 students returned to class this week for the first time since the earthquake. Even before the quake, the school system had wrestled with tumult.Trump Administration Rolls Back Obama-Era Rules for School LunchesThe Department of Agriculture announced its plans to lower nutritional standards for grains, flavored milks and sodium in school cafeterias.A Ban on Parents in the School Lunchroom? Everyone Seems to Have an Opinion“What began as a small debate in a wealthy Connecticut town erupted into a controversy over when Mom and Dad should let go.In 19 States, It’s Still Legal to Spank Children in Public SchoolsTens of thousands of children continue to be physically punished at school, and efforts to end the practice entirely have stalled.State Police Investigating Abuse at Celebrated Louisiana SchoolNew allegations have arisen since The New York Times detailed physical and emotional abuse at T.M. Landry, a school celebrated for landing black students in elite colleges.Kansas Boy, 16, Is Set to Graduate in the Spring From High School — and HarvardThe teenager said he hopes to go to law school in the fall, and his goal is to one day become president.Do Children Get a Subpar Education in Yeshivas? New York Says It Will Finally Find OutSome students graduate from the ultra-Orthodox schools barely knowing how to read and write in English. New rules could force the schools to change how they operate.The Misguided Priorities of Our Educational System“We spend too much money on college students and not enough on everyone else,” states this Opinion essay.Allow School Personnel to Have Access to Weapons, Report SaysPresident Trump read the recommendations of the Federal Commission on School Safety, which played down the role of guns in school violence.Trump Administration Report on School Safety Plays Down Role of GunsThe report instead focused on rescinding Obama-era disciplinary policies, improving mental health services and training school personnel in the use of firearms.What Straight-A Students Get WrongThis Opinion essay argues “if you always succeed in school, you’re not setting yourself up for success in life.”For-Profit College Chain Closes, Shutting Out Nearly 20,000 StudentsEducation Corporation of America ran more than 70 campuses across the country before closing schools this week after it lost its accreditation.Challengers of Affirmative Action Have a New Target: New York City’s Elite High SchoolsThe controversy surrounding Mayor Bill de Blasio’s plan to integrate the city’s specialized high schools just intensified.‘I Just Love White Men’: White Man Aims Racist Rant at Columbia Students of ColorIn a video posted to Twitter, a young man identified as a student yelled white supremacist remarks on campus early Sunday morning._________Civics, Politics, Economics and Business9-Year-Old Boy Helps Repeal Snowball Throwing Ban in Colorado TownDane Best of Severance, Colo., successfully lobbied the town of Severance to repeal a ban on snowball throwing that was part of a nearly century-old ordinance.At 12, He Lost His Best Friend. He Found a Way to Remember Him.Kaleb and KJ were like brothers. When KJ died this year, Kaleb started raising money.Indiana High School Student Charged With Murdering Pregnant ClassmateBreana Rouhselang, 17, was six months pregnant when her body was found in a dumpster. The father of her child, Aaron Trejo, 16, confessed to killing her, the authorities said.From Collecting Firewood for Sale to Forging a Path in CollegeFive years ago, Nuam San came to the U.S. unable to speak English. Now she‘s going to college to “be the leader for my whole family.”She Ran Away From Foster Care. She Ended Up in Handcuffs and Leg Irons.It is not a crime to run away from foster care. But in Family Court hearings each week, the city is getting arrest warrants for children who do.Troubled Girls Were Sent to This Town to Heal. Many Were Lured Into the Sex Trade Instead.Nineteen people were charged with exploiting girls at the Hawthorne Cedar Knolls center as part of a sex-trafficking ring.How a Crackdown on MS-13 Caught Up Innocent High School StudentsThe Trump administration went after gang members — and instead destroyed the American dreams of immigrant teenagers around the country.A Second Chance for Prisoners, and Their WardenAs a school board member in Wolf Point, Mont., Ron Jackson couldn’t help struggling Native American students as much as he hoped. Now some of them are his inmates.Priest Pulled From Funerals After Repeatedly Citing Teenager’s Suicide in ‘Pastoral Disaster’The parents of a teenager who killed himself said the Catholic priest who presided at his funeral repeatedly brought up his suicide, compounding their grief.At 14, She Hunts Wolves and Takes Selfies With Cherished Eagle in MongoliaIn western Mongolia, hunting for fur and food with trained eagles is an important part of the local culture — and a way for tech-savvy teenagers to connect with their elders.Kashmiri Teenagers Are Dying to Protect MilitantsIndian forces hunting for separatist fighters now regularly face angry crowds seeking to defend them. Scores of civilians have been killed.A Moment in Mexico: Children of the Narco ZoneWhat it’s like to grow up as the child of an avowed gangster.12-Year-Old in China Kills His Mother, Then Returns to School, Igniting an OutcryThe decision to allow the boy to return to school has raised questions about China’s policy of not holding children underage 14 responsible for crimes.I’m 13 and I Write Holiday Cards to People in Prison“I hope you, too, do something that makes you and another person feel good this season,” states this Opinion essay writer who is currently in eighth grade.My Friend ‘Virginia, From Virginia’At boarding school, the gift of an unlikely connection is the topic of this Opinion essay.Alexa Krugel Is a Reliable FriendAlexa is one of ‘20 Kids Who Make the World a Better Place’ featured in The New York Times for Kids.A Toast to the Future From Young People Who Needed a PathA 12-week internship program provides disadvantaged young people with paid internships and a network of resources._________Science, Health, Technology and SportsHow to Foster Empathy in ChildrenResearch shows that we are each born with a given number of neurons that participate in an empathetic response. But early life experience shapes how we act on it.Starting School Later Really Does Help Teens Get SleepBefore Seattle made a change, students got an average of six hours and 50 minutes of sleep a night. Afterward, they got seven hours and 24 minutes.Study Shows Big Rise in Teen Vaping This YearUse of other drugs, including opioids, alcohol and tobacco cigarettes, was down and marijuana use was steady, the annual survey of American teenagers found.Addicted to Vaped Nicotine, Teenagers Have No Clear Path to QuittingParents, schools and public health experts struggle to find effective ways to help young people quit e-cigarettes. “There is no sound science yet.”How to Help Teenagers Quit VapingThough options are limited for now, they exist. For starters, parents should recognize that they are confronting an addiction to nicotine, which is hard to break.When Report Cards Go Out on Fridays, Child Abuse Increases on Saturdays, Study FindsVerified cases of child abuse in Florida occurred at higher rates on the Saturdays after the release of report cards at public schools, according to a JAMA Pediatrics study.My 15-Year-Old Daughter Told Me She’s Pansexual and Dating a Transgender Boy. I’m Struggling.A mother wonders how to support the child she doesn’t entirely understand.Like Tomboys and Hate Girlie Girls? That’s SexistAccording to this Opinion essay writer, “we need to stop maligning femininity, in both girls and boys.”Why Is Children’s Masturbation Such a Secret?Parents and children have questions, but there is surprisingly little guidance available in the pediatric literature.How to Be More Resilient“Some people are just genetically tougher. But you can train your brain to better handle stress,” according to the writer of this Opinion essay.In France, School Lessons Ask: Which Twitter Post Should You Trust?To combat online misinformation and radicalization, one of the world’s largest national internet literacy efforts is teaching students how to spot junk informationKids Shouldn’t Have to Sacrifice Privacy for Education“Our laws offer students very little protection against the wiles of the technology industry,” according to this Opinion essay.Is Screen Time Bad for Kids’ Brains?A study featured on “60 Minutes” is sure to alarm parents. Here’s what scientists know, and don’t know, about the link between screens, behavior, and development.PowerPoint Is the Most Efficient Way for Kids to Manage Their ParentsThe most solid method for kids to achieve their goals? An awesome presentation.The Town Where the Shots Go Up, and the Records FallJoe Girard III is smashing scoring records at Glens Falls High School, recalling another favorite son of upstate New York who preceded him there.In the U.S., Young Hockey Goalies Are Coming In From the ColdFor years, there was wasn’t much instruction available for youngsters who wanted to guard the net. Gradually, that has changed.Athlete to Activist: How a Public Coming Out Shaped a Young Football Player’s LifeIn a very public speech last year, Jake Bain, now a college athlete, became an accidental activist determined to change the national conversation about gay teenagers.‘Destroying Our Children for Sport’: Thailand May Limit Underage BoxingA 13-year-old’s death in the ring has spurred moves to limit the hallowed sport of muay Thai among children, and fierce calls in its defense.Mom Sells Tomatoes as Her Son Seeks Tennis TitlesChun Hsin Tseng is the No. 1 player in the junior boys rankings. Now that he’s turning pro, his family can close their Taipei food stand.For Mo’ne Davis, a Social Awakening and a Commitment to HamptonDavis, the first girl to pitch a shutout at the Little League World Series, said she would play softball next year at Hampton, partly influenced by her appreciation for black history.Everyone Loves to Watch Zion Williamson Play. Maybe as Much as He Loves PlayingThe Duke freshman is earning comparisons to Charles Barkley, Shawn Kemp and, yes, even LeBron James and has everyone in basketball’s attention.A British Hockey Player Lands in CanadaLiam Kirk, 18, is from England and is playing in a junior league to pursue his N.H.L. dream. But he is already a commercial phenom in a sport that is growing back home.Civil Rights Investigation Opened After Black Wrestler Had to Cut His DreadlocksOfficials are reviewing the incident for possible bias after a video of the incident went viral._________Arts, Media and CultureRookie Cataloged a Generation of GirlhoodTavi Gevinson’s online magazine served as a collective diary for Gen Z.Every Christmas Eve, a Lone Choir Boy Sings to More Than 370 MillionThe Festival of Nine Lessons and Carols at King’s College, Cambridge, was directed for the last time by Stephen Cleobury and broadcast around the world.In a Season of Boys’ Choirs, a Question: Why No Girls?The tradition of all-boy church choirs goes back centuries. But now some are asking if it’s time for a change.Is Any Topic Off Limits When You Write for Teenagers? Maybe Just OneYoung adult books now address every corner of teenage experience, no matter how dark or racy. But few authors dare to write about religion and faith.Louis C.K. Mocks Parkland School Shooting Survivors in Recent SetAdvertisementSupported byAll of the weddings right here on one handy page for you.Ms. Boser and Mr. Choate met in April 2016 at Harbor Cove Beach in Ventura when the old work truck Ms. Boser was driving got stuck. She had driven to the beach to collect sand for a restoration project on Santa Cruz Island, where invasive Argentine ants were swarming baby birds in their nests, interfering with native plant pollination and crowding out native ants. To rid the island of these pests without harming other species, she designed specialized bait, and wanted to do a trial run of the distribution equipment, using sand as a stand-in for the bait.All was going as planned, until the truck got stuck. Mr. Choate and a friend were also at the beach watching ships pass along the shore when they heard the sound of tires spinning.Mr. Choate rode his bike over to help. He used a piece of wood as a wedge and was able to steer the truck back onto compacted sand. He rode away, but returned to suggest that he and Ms. Boser exchange numbers, in case, he said, she should ever need his help in the future. Ms. Boser agreed before it dawned on her that this was a flirtation. She had not seen it coming.“That’s not how my brain works,” Ms. Boser said. “I’m sure I was completely flushed and blushing.”The next day Mr. Choate called to invite Ms. Boser to go hiking at Arroyo Verde park in Ventura. She in turn asked him to join her and some friends for oysters at the beach.Ms. Boser’s friends greeted Mr. Choate with intense curiosity. “I don’t date a lot,” Ms. Boser said, “so he got interrogated by everybody.”Mr. Choate, impressed with her travel, said, “That’s when I found out she’d been all over the damn world.” Afterward, strolling along the Ventura pier, they kissed.But Mr. Choate left town the following week. As the captain of a ship that supplied oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, he was often gone for a month at a time, and home for only a few weeks before shipping out again. This schedule did not allow him much opportunity for a relationship. “I’d been single for quite awhile,” he said.But they texted each other, and he continued to reach out to Ms. Boser whenever he was home on leave. “I was excited about it,” he said, “and very interested in her and getting to know her better.”The time apart allowed Ms. Boser the chance to gradually adjust to being with someone, but she wondered if it would work long-term.“One, he’s gone for a long portion of the year, and two, he’s younger,” she said. But when they were together, she was happy. “He listens to me, he is kind, and he is kind to other people.”A scientist even in matters of the heart, Ms. Boser populated a spreadsheet with data about a hypothetical wedding.“I’m looking at these things and deciding if this is the life I want,” she said. “I decided yes, because I could see a future.”Still, they did not move in together as Ms. Boser had a sickly cat. Two years into the relationship, the cat died and she packed her things. At the time, Mr. Choate was working a new job, piloting tugboats off the coast of Maine. “I called him and I said, ‘O.K., I’m moving into your house now.’ ”That same week, a heavy rope crushed Mr. Choate’s hand and he had to have portions of two fingers amputated. Ms. Boser booked a flight for later that day.Read more. Ms. Patel and Mr. Burbank met on Coffee Meets Bagel in Nashville in May 2017. Ms. Patel, still reeling from the breakup of a one-year “terrible relationship,” as she called it, was in the midst of an eight-month solo trip around the country in search of herself.“I was determined to finally pay attention to my own needs,” she said. “I was scared of a lot of things, so I decided to face those fears. I quit my job and sublet my Brooklyn apartment. I wanted to see what else was out there, so I hit the road.”Ms. Patel’s trip began in February 2017 with stops in Chicago, Miami and Orlando, Fla., before she arrived in Nashville, where she met Mr. Burbank online, initially dismissing his profile. “He was a white, Christian man from Texas,” she said. “He was also two years younger than me, the opposite of everything I wanted, but he was so handsome.”That left the door slightly ajar for Mr. Burbank, a native of Dallas who had lived and worked in New Orleans for the better part of a decade. They agreed to meet and go for a hike at Shelby Bottoms, a nature preserve in East Nashville.He offered to pick her up, but she politely declined, choosing instead to get there by taxicab.“When she got out of the cab, she was clutching her purse,” Mr. Burbank said, laughing. “I thought to myself, ‘Now that’s a real New Yorker.’”Mr. Burbank tried to impress Ms. Patel with his familiarity of the trails at Shelby Bottoms, but they got lost in the woods for four hours. Ms. Patel became frustrated, but rather than tell Mr. Burbank to take another hike, she decided to stay the course, and they went to Rosepepper, a Mexican cantina in East Nashville, where they drank margaritas and shared a meal during what turned out to be a very successful nine-hour first date.They dated for the duration of May before Ms. Patel continued on her journey to Chicago, Utah, Arizona, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Vancouver, British Columbia. She briefly returned to Nashville to visit Mr. Burbank, and then went off to complete her trip, visiting Chicago again and then North Carolina and New Jersey before returning in October 2017 to Nashville, and Mr. Burbank, for good.“There was something very natural about my relationship with Trevor,” Ms. Patel said. “There were never any games between us.”In April 2018, the couple bought a farm in Nashville, which they share with five chickens, a Border-Collie mix and visiting wild turkeys, coyotes, raccoons, vultures and hawks.“My life is the opposite of what it was two years ago,” Ms. Patel said. “I went from living with two roommates in a basement apartment in Brooklyn to sharing 20 acres with my partner, and I get to write and draw and travel for a living.”Mr. Burbank said he admired Ms. Patel’s “work ethic and discipline.”Read more.Elizabeth Connelly McKnight and David Benjamin Quinn were married April 13 at Indian Creek Country Club in Miami Beach. The Rev. Robert W. Asinger, a minister of the United Church of Christ, officiated, with the Rev. Dr. Barbara A. Asinger taking part.The couple met at Boston College, from which they graduated.Ms. McKnight, 30, is an actress in New York who goes by Libby, and who appeared in 2018 as Lady Anne in the Commonwealth Shakespeare Company production of “Richard III” in Boston. She also voiced the forthcoming “The Mystery of Alice” for Audible, a producer of digital audiobooks. She received a master’s degree in drama from Juilliard.She is a daughter of Peggy Thomas McKnight and Stephen H. McKnight of Fox Chapel, Pa. The bride’s father is a consultant in Pittsburgh on real estate investment and development. Her mother is a trustee of Point Park University and the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, and is a director of the Pittsburgh Zoo & PPG Aquarium.The bride is also a great-great-granddaughter of Robert Garland, who was instrumental, in 1918, in establishing daylight saving time.Mr. Quinn, 29, is an assistant district attorney, in a trial bureau, in New York. He received a law degree from Boston College.He is the son of Diane S. Juliar and Joseph F. Quinn of Newton, Mass. The groom’s mother is an emerita clinical professor of law at Suffolk University in Boston. His father is a professor of economics at Boston College and is a trustee of Amherst College.Cristine Katherine Mayer and Keith Berk Timko were married April 13 at Brazos Hall, an events space in Austin, Tex. The Rev. Trish E. Woodruff, a United Methodist minister who is a friend of the bride’s family, officiated.Mrs. Timko, 31, is an associate director in content partnerships at iHeartMedia in Manhattan. She graduated from Texas A&M and received a master’s degree in music business from N.Y.U.She is a daughter of Holly K. Mayer and Tom Mayer of The Woodlands, Tex. The bride’s father retired as the managing director in the Houston office of the OC Tanner Company, a Salt Lake City company that develops employee recognition strategies. He is now the director of business development at DTK in Houston, a provider of facility services. Her mother is the director of programs and services at Interfaith of The Woodlands, a nonprofit social service agency.Mr. Timko, 32, is a director of strategy and initiatives at Premion, an online video advertising company in Manhattan. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.He is the son of Janet M. Berk and Michael J. Timko of Holmdel, N.J. Until the 1980s, his parents were prosecutors in the Kings County District Attorney’s Office in Brooklyn. The groom’s mother then became a stay-at-home parent, and she now works part time as a facilitator in schools throughout Monmouth County for the New Jersey Child Assault Prevention Project, a state-run program. His father, who is retired, was a senior vice president and of counsel at Mastercard in Purchase, N.Y.The couple met in November 2014 during a happy hour organized by mutual friends at a West Village bar in Manhattan. Before he showed up, Ms. Mayer was told that Mr. Timko was a bit wilder than the guys she was used to dating. He showed up several hours late, but she gave him a chance anyway, and the two started dating.Martha Randolph Simms and Eric Benjamin Lorber were married April 13 in Atlanta. The Rev. Timothy H. Black, an Episcopal priest, officiated at Cator Woolford Gardens, with Joyce Bihary, a retired chief judge of the federal bankruptcy court in Atlanta, taking part.Ms. Simms, 32, is the special adviser on policy relating to detentions, watchlisting, countering violent extremism and other issues to the State Department’s ambassador at large for counterterrorism, in Washington. She graduated magna cum laude from Tufts, and received a master’s degree in international relations and economics, concentrating on European studies, from Johns Hopkins University.She is a daughter of Charlotte E. Erwin and Bryan R. Simms of Glendale, Calif. The bride’s father retired as a professor of musicology at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. Her mother retired as the head of archives and special collections at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena, Calif.The bride is also a direct descendant of John Winthrop and of Thomas Dudley, both governors of the Massachusetts Bay Colony in its earliest years.Mr. Lorber, 35, is a director at the Financial Integrity Network, a Washington consultancy focused on sanctions, anti-money-laundering initiatives and compliance. He is also the senior director of the Center on Economic and Financial Power, a program of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, also in Washington. He graduated magna cum laude from Columbia and received a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.He is a son of Elizabeth Cromwell Lorber and Henry P. Lorber of Atlanta. The groom’s mother was until 2015 a chef at Watershed, a restaurant in Atlanta, and is to begin working as a chef in July at Redbird, an Atlanta restaurant that the groom’s brother is opening. The groom’s father is a financial consultant in Decatur, Ga., advising clients on debt restructuring and commercial real estate transactions.The couple met in September 2016 at a happy hour in Washington that was hosted by the Foreign Policy Initiative, where both were young professional fellows. He introduced himself as she was leaving, but when the couple met again in November, after having connected through the League, a dating app, she didn’t recall the encounter at all. That bit of awkwardness aside, the two went out and hit it off immediately.Marissa Valerie Nicolo and Michael Anthony Calogero were married April 13 at the India House, an events space in Manhattan. Deborah A. Kaplan, an administrative justice of the Supreme Court, New York County, civil branch, officiated.Mrs. Calogero, 33, is a sales force product manager at Burford Capital, a litigation finance firm in Manhattan. She graduated from the State University of New York at Oneonta and holds an M.B.A. from C.W. Post, Long Island University.She is a daughter of Deborah J. Cohen of Oceanside, N.Y., and the late Anthony J. Nicolo. The bride’s mother retired as a special-education teacher at Public School No. 710 in Bayside, Queens. She is now an autism consultant in private practice.Mr. Calogero, 34, is an associate specializing in matrimonial and family law at Cohen Clair Lans Greifer Thorpe & Rottenstreich in Manhattan. He graduated from the College of the Holy Cross and received a law degree magna cum laude from Albany Law School.He is a son of Mary Calogero and Joseph Calogero of Clifton Park, N.Y. The groom’s mother, retired as an elementary schoolteacher for the Scotia-Glenville school district in Scotia, N.Y. His father is an insurance adjuster at Seidel Claims Service in Glens Falls, N.Y.The couple were introduced in 2014 by the bride’s sister, who is married to one of the groom’s childhood friends.Lauren Sara Wiley and Nathan Mark Terrazas were married April 13 at the South Congress Hotel in Austin, Tex. Rabbi Monty Eliasov officiated, with the Rev. Rob Hall, an auxiliary bishop of the Old Catholic Diocese of Uniformed Services, taking part.Mrs. Terrazas, 27, is a speech language pathologist at a private practice in Austin. She is also a Pilates instructor at Solidcore in Austin. She graduated from Northwestern, from which she also received a master’s degree in speech, language and learning.She is the daughter of Audrey B. Wiley and Richard B. Wiley of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The bride’s father, who is retired, worked in the sales division at BMW in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Her mother, who works in Armonk, N.Y., is an administrator in the winter office of both Tripp Lake Camp, an all-girls sleep-away camp in Poland, Me., and Camp Takajo, an all-boys sleep-away camp in Naples, Me.Mr. Terrazas, 31, is a product specialist at ePayPolicy, a payment processor to the insurance industry in Austin. He graduated from DePaul University. He is the son of Elisa Terrazas and Mark Terrazas of Lansing, Ill. The groom’s mother is a cosmetologist in private practice in Munster, Ind. His father is a chief building engineer for SodexoMagic, an engineering firm in Chicago.The couple met in summer 2012 while they were working at Camp Takajo. She was a tennis counselor and he a soccer counselor. They bonded over their love of Chicago and the groom’s Australian shepherd, Roo.Jorge García de la Cámara and José Álvarez Pérez are to be married April 14 at the Plenary Meeting Room of Valdes Town Hall in Luarca, Asturias, in Spain. Mayor Simón Guardado Pérez is to perform the ceremony.Mr. de la Cámara, 47, is the open program manager in Barcelona, Spain, at the Barcelona School of Management at Pompeu Fabra University, from which he received an executive M.B.A. He graduated with a degree in architecture from the University of Seville.He is a son of Juana de la Cámara and Luis García of Seville. His father retired as a building engineer there. His mother was a stay-at-home parent.Mr. Pérez, 51, is a public servant for the Generalitat of Catalonia, serving as a comptroller. He graduated with a degree in economics from Oviedo University in Oviedo, Spain.He is the son of Etelvina Pérez and José Álvarez, who retired as the owner of a construction company in their hometown, Vega de Pope, Cangas del Narcea, Asturias. Mr. Pérez’ mother was also a stay-at-home parent.The couple met on an online dating site in October 2012.Samantha Linn Price Schilit and Jeremy Phillip Rosenweig are to be married April 14 at Water’s Edge Resort and Spa in Westbrook, Conn. Rabbi Stuart Berman, an uncle of the bride, is to officiate, with Rabbi Nathaniel Berman, a cousin of the bride, taking part. On April 13, Robert Brande, a friend of the groom, led the couple in a celebration ceremony, also at Water’s Edge.In July, Dr. Schilit, 30, will begin an American Board of Medical Genetics and Genomics fellowship in laboratory genetics and genomics at Harvard Medical School.Last month, she received a Ph.D. in genetics and genomics from Harvard, along with a certificate in human biology and translational medicine. She graduated from Wesleyan University, from which she also received a master’s degree in molecular biology and biochemistry.She is a daughter of Susan G. Price of Silver Spring, Md., and the late Robert P. Schilit, who lived in Forest Hills, Queens. The bride’s mother works at the federal Labor Department in Washington. Her father was a Washington-based economist and financial analyst.Mr. Rosenweig, 32, is a mechanical engineer at MIT Lincoln Laboratory, a research and development center in Lexington, Mass. He graduated from Cornell and received a master’s degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Southern California.He is a son of Lila Corn Rosenweig and Marc H. Rosenweig of Glen Rock, N.J. The groom’s mother is retired from WABC-TV in New York, where she was a news producer and writer. His father retired as a professor of television and digital media at Montclair State University.The couple met in April 2016 on OkCupid.Erin Elizabeth Pearson and Brendan Michael Rivage-Seul were married April 13 at the office of Peter Atanasson, a registered officiant with the Superior Court of the District of Columbia who is a member of the staff of DC Elopements, which helps couples obtain marriage licenses by proxy.On May 4, the couple will take part in a celebration ceremony, to be led by their fathers, Thomas C. Pearson and D. Michael Rivage-Seul, at Maison des Polytechniciens, an events space in Paris.The bride, 36, is a senior researcher at Ipas, a global nonprofit organization based in Chapel Hill, N.C. Her research focuses on increasing women’s access to reproductive health services in developing countries. She graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a master’s degree in public health from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. She also holds a Ph.D. in public health from Johns Hopkins University.She is the daughter of Kerry L. Miller of Temple, Tex., and Mr. Pearson of China Spring, Tex. The bride’s father is the executive director of the Arc of McLennan County, a nonprofit organization in Waco, Tex., that promotes and protects the human rights of people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. Her mother is the project coordinator in Waco for the Texas School Ready Project at the Economic Opportunities Advancement Corporation, a preschool teacher training program.The groom, also 36, is a foreign service officer currently stationed in Paris. He graduated cum laude from Lafayette College and received a master’s degree in public policy from Harvard.He is a son of Marguerite Rivage-Seul and Mr. Rivage-Seul of Westport, Conn. His mother is chairwoman of the women’s and gender studies department, and a professor in that department, at Berea College in Berea, Ky., where the groom’s father, who is retired, was a professor of philosophy and religion, and remains emeritus director of peace and social justice studies.The couple met in summer 2009 in New Delhi while working as graduate interns for the United Nations Children’s Fund.Emily Kathleen Ely and Rubin Jesse Miller were married April 13 at Early Mountain Vineyards in Madison, Va. Stephanie McNerney, a friend of the couple who was sworn in by a judge as a one-time officiant in a nonreligious ceremony in the state of Virginia, officiated.Ms. Ely, 35, is an assistant professor of reading education and a coordinator of high-impact practices, where she develops and oversees initiatives to improve the teaching and learning practices across campus, at Mary Baldwin University in Staunton, Va. She graduated from the University of Miami, from which she also received a master’s degree in reading education. She also received a Ph.D. in curriculum, instruction and special education from the University of Virginia.She is a daughter of Bonnie B. Hunt of Chapel Hill, N.C., and William L. Ely of Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla. The bride’s father, who is retired, was the owner and president of Sloan & Company, a company in Rochester that distributes plumping equipment, and of Metro Distributors, a company in Jacksonville, Fla., that distributes countertop materials. Her mother works in Chapel Hill as a licensed Realtor for Golden Real Estate and for Howard Hanna Realty in Rochester.Mr. Miller, also 35, works in Santa Monica, Calif., as a regional director for Dimensional Fund Advisors, an investment management company based in Austin, Tex. He graduated from Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio and received an M.B.A. from the University of Southern California.He is a son of Shelley R. Miller and Dr. Marvin E. Miller of Dayton, Ohio. The groom’s mother is in private practice there as a marriage and family therapist. His father is a medical geneticist at Dayton Children’s Hospital there.The couple met while attending the Allen Creek Elementary School in Rochester. Mr. Miller later reconnected with Dr. Ely’s twin sister, Arin Bryan, during business trips to Austin. Arin Bryan, who tried to set up the couple for years, eventually got them together in 2017 for a group camping trip to Moab, Zion and Grand Staircase-Escalante in Utah. They started dating a few months later.Samantha Flick Braun and Benjamin William Colombo were married April 13 at the Foundry, an events space in Long Island City, Queens. Spencer F. Braun, the bride’s brother who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion, officiated.The bride, 29, is the business development manager for Uber’s safety initiatives in San Francisco, and is also pursuing an M.B.A. at Columbia. She graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania.She is the daughter of Anne C. Flick and Neil S. Braun of Manhattan. The bride’s father is the dean of the Lubin School of Business at Pace University. He is on the board of Share Our Strength, a nonprofit organization in Washington working to end childhood hunger in United States. Her mother is a clinical psychologist in private practice in Manhattan.The groom, 35, is the communications director at One Concern, a company in Menlo Park, Calif., that uses artificial intelligence to predict the impact of natural disasters. He graduated from Franklin & Marshall College and received a master’s degree in international relations from N.Y.U.He is a son of Molly Hegarty Colombo of Greenwich, Conn., and the late Richard A. Colombo. The groom’s mother is the Democratic registrar of voters for Greenwich. His father was a professor of marketing at Fordham in Manhattan.The couple met in 2012 while they worked at the same strategy advisory firm in Manhattan. They did not start dating until 2015, soon after the groom returned from an assignment in Australia. Their first date was to a Magritte exhibit at the Museum of Modern Art.Amy Raffaella Shugar and Seth Benjamin Weinberg were married April 13 at the Skylark, an events space in New York. Cantor Bruce L. Ruben officiated.The couple work at Columbia Law School — she as an associate director of major gifts, he as an adjunct professor teaching food law and policy.Mrs. Weinberg, 43, graduated from Duke, from which she also received an M.B.A. She is a member of the alumni council of Duke’s Fuqua School of Business, and a chairwoman of Duke’s Alumni Admissions Committee in New York.She is the daughter of Gerald R. Shugar of West Palm Beach, Fla., and the late Lois Rapaport Shugar, who lived in New York.Mr. Weinberg, 45, is a partner in the law firm Weinberg Zareh Malkin Price in New York, of which he is a founding member. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania and received a law degree from Columbia, where he is on the board of the law school association. He is also on the board of governors of the Penn Club of New York.He is a son of Bonnie Weinberg and Jeffrey J. Weinberg of Miromar Lakes, Fla.The groom’s previous marriage ended in divorce.The couple met in June 2017 through the dating app JSwipe.Michelle Cynthia Trone and Thomas Edward Clinch Jr. were married April 13 at Union Station in Washington. Rabbi Baht Weiss officiated.The bride, 30, is a management consultant at the Boston Consulting Group in Washington. She graduated from Emory University and received an M.B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania. She also holds a master’s degree in international relations and international economics from Johns Hopkins University.She is a daughter of June S. Trone and David J. Trone of Potomac, Md. The bride’s father, a Democrat of Maryland, is a United States representative who serves the state’s Sixth District. He is also the founder and owner of Total Wine & More, a wine and alcohol retailer based in Bethesda, Md., where her mother served as a member of its management team.The groom, 31, is the director of operations for the Washington metro area at EyeCare Service Partners. He graduated from the University of Michigan.A woman and her daughter flee persecution in Honduras. Despite identical circumstances, the mother is granted entry, while her daughter is deported. And there is little to be done about it.Susan, who is back in Honduras and living with a neighbor after being separated from her sister and mother and deported.CreditCreditSupported byBy Beth FertigPhotographs by Victor J. BlueEven after more than six months, Kirad wasn’t used to sharing a bed with her mother. She was now 17, and ever since they arrived in New York after fleeing Honduras, they were stuck in the same room.They were staying in a tiny bungalow in Far Rockaway, Queens, that belonged to Kirad’s aunt. The only common space was a kitchen just big enough to squeeze in a love seat and a small table. Every surface was covered with pots and pans, cereal boxes and bags of food.“We fight sometimes over the TV,” Kirad said, “because my mom wants to watch something and I want to watch something different so I go to my aunt’s room.”For the most part, they have made it work.As cramped as it is in this tiny room, Kirad had hoped to have one more family member sharing this space: her older sister, Susan. She and her mother last saw Susan in July, when they crossed the Mexican border into Eagle Pass, Tex. The family of three was seeking asylum.Kirad and her mother, Ana Batiz, were allowed to pursue their case in immigration court, and went on to New York. But Susan was not. She was sent back to Honduras by herself.“I’m sure my mother would sleep on the couch or on the floor or whatever for the three of us to be together,” Kirad said.“I have never been away from them,” Ms. Batiz said of her daughters. This is a story about the brutal math that asylum seekers face at the border today. In this case, a mother and a daughter with virtually identical circumstances try to immigrate to the United States. Each has an interview with an asylum officer that could alter their lives forever.[Read about a family’s experiences in the hours before the father of five children is deported.] One persuades her interviewer that returning to Honduras was too dangerous; she enters the country to pursue an asylum claim.The other, an 18-year-old, fails that same test. As a result, she is separated from her only family and sent back, alone, to an environment where she feels threatened every day.When Ana Batiz and her daughters arrived at the border, she did not even realize they had crossed illegally. She said she did not know there was an official point of entry at Eagle Pass, she said, so they waded across the dangerous waters of the Rio Grande with other migrants.Ms. Batiz left her small village on the Atlantic coast of Honduras with plans to seek asylum, because she was persecuted for having H.I.V. “I don’t think it’s right,” she said, “for someone to tell you, ‘You should die.’”The family did not join a caravan. She said they hitched rides with other Hondurans heading north. It all fell apart when they got to the Texas border. Ms. Batiz and her two daughters were taken to what immigrants call a hielera, Spanish for “icebox,” a processing center run by Customs and Border Protection.That night of their arrival at Eagle Pass, according to Kirad, border agents took Susan, along with about 10 others, all young men, out of the room. “They told my mother that they were going to take me out and bring me right back,” Susan recalled.But she didn’t return.Long before the Trump administration’s recent policy of separating migrant children from their parents, Customs and Border Protection agents have been taking children ages 18 and over away from their parents. This is because the agency considers them to be legal adults, who should be sent to adult detention centers instead of staying with families. With the current surge in families crossing the border, this means even more 18-year-olds could find themselves separated from their parents. But there’s a paradox here. Although Susan was considered an adult at the border, she would have been considered a child in the United States as an immigrant seeking asylum.That’s because older teens like Susan fall into conflicting categories under U.S. immigration policies. The Immigration and Nationality Act defines anyone under 21 and unmarried as a child. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services also uses this definition and allows children under 21 to accompany their parents to asylum interviews. These interviews are crucial because they determine whether a migrant can stay in the country and pursue their case in immigration court.As an adult at the border, Susan had been separated from her family, so she couldn’t attend her mother’s asylum interview. She would have to fend for herself.Until 2010, people with H.I.V. were actually banned from entering the United States. When that changed, people with H.I.V. could also seek asylum in the U.S. if they were persecuted for it in their home country. Ms. Batiz and her daughters made a strong case that they were. She has asked that we not use the last names of her daughters out of fear for their safety.In their small Honduran town, Ms. Batiz’s family was part of the Garifuna community, descendants of enslaved Africans and indigenous Central Americans. The Garifuna tend to be extremely poor, and they have the highest rate of H.I.V. transmissions in Honduras.Ms. Batiz said she learned she was infected only after Kirad was born. She felt ill and went to a doctor, who told her the news: She was H.I.V. positive and had been for years. Her boyfriend, who most likely infected her, left. “He abandoned us,” she said. He’s the father of her three youngest daughters (she has two older children from a previous relationship). She had the girls tested. Susan, the middle child, was H.I.V. positive too.Ms. Batiz turned to a nongovernmental organization in Honduras that helps people with H.I.V. She became an H.I.V. educator. Soon, Ms. Batiz was working for the organization, attending protests to demand more medicine. One time, she said, police used tear gas and hoses on demonstrators. She was also featured in a 2013 video by the Pulitzer Center about what it’s like to be Garifuna and living with H.I.V.Her descriptions are reminiscent of AIDS activists in the U.S. during the 1980s who were part of the protest movement Act Up. Ms. Batiz said this activity made her an easy target in Honduras. She was a black woman with H.I.V., protesting for better conditions, and living in a place where people are terrified of AIDS. “Sometimes I was walking down the street and some people would see me and say, ‘Here comes the one with SIDA,’” she said, using the Spanish word for AIDS. “It’s very difficult situation to be there as an activist.”Officially, Honduras has stronger protections for people with H.I.V. than some of its neighbors. But the reality, according to Amnesty International and the U.S. State Department, is that people with H.I.V. are routinely denied access to jobs, education and health services.“The women who are infected are considered to be dirty,” said Deborah Ottenheimer, a Manhattan-based gynecologist who does exams for women seeking asylum because of human rights abuses. She has met Honduran women with H.I.V. who experienced all types of persecution, including forced sterilization.“They can’t get jobs, they often are attacked. Their children — especially if their children are thought to be, not even known to be, but thought to be H.I.V. positive — will also be discriminated against. They won’t be allowed to go to school.”Ms. Batiz’s daughters suffered at school, especially Susan. “Everybody, all my classmates, knew about my mother and my sister, too,” Kirad recalled. She said they called Susan “sidosa,” a slur against people with AIDS.There were also vicious attacks. “They would take her to the bathroom and would put her head in the toilet,” Kirad said, adding that these were filthy toilets without modern plumbing.Kirad said she saw students push her sister’s head into a toilet on about five different occasions, and that she would try to fight the other kids in the bathroom. Susan didn’t want to tell their mother, but Kirad did. When Ms. Batiz confronted the school, she said the director behaved as though it was no big deal. At some point around 2016, things got so bad that she took both of her girls out of school and kept them at home.The next year, Ms. Batiz said her house was burned down under mysterious circumstances. No one was home at the time. She didn’t know who did it, and she didn’t contact the police because she was certain they wouldn’t investigate. But she said she knew it was arson because she smelled the gasoline. “I think they were trying to get me to leave,” she said.The family moved in with neighboring friends, but Ms. Batiz started making plans to take Kirad and Susan to stay with her sister in New York.When asylum officers conduct a credible fear interview, they ask basic questions about how a migrant was persecuted and what role the authorities played. The Trump Administration claims the bar is too low because most easily pass, even though less than a quarter actually wind up getting asylum. Migrants who pass the test can wait years for their asylum cases to go to immigration court, because of an enormous backlog. In the meantime they can qualify for working papers. The president has criticized this as “catch and release.”Ms. Batiz said her interview happened the same day she arrived at the “icebox.” She recalled the two officers who questioned her gasping when she told them how she faced discrimination for having H.I.V. “I think that’s why they took me out quickly,” she said.The next morning, Ms. Batiz and Kirad were released to go on to New York. They didn’t know what happened to Susan, only that she had been taken away hours earlier. Kirad said they asked people at the processing center but were told only that Susan was taken to a different place. “My mother started crying,” she recalled. With no additional information, they took a bus to San Antonio where they got assistance from a Catholic aid organization, which paid for them to fly to New York.Soon after arriving at her sister’s home in Far Rockaway, Ms. Batiz got a call from Susan. She was 1,900 miles away at an adult detention center in Pearsall, Tex., run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement. She was examined by a doctor and given H.I.V. medications. But it took three weeks for her to get her credible fear interview.During that waiting period, Susan said a doctor told her that the H.I.V. drugs she was given in Honduras were not working well. She said she was also under great distress, begging other detainees in her room to let her sleep on the bottom bunk because she was afraid of heights. She had never been away from her mother before and said she was scared of the women who worked at the detention center, claiming they said cruel things to her because she was black and from Honduras.The credible fear interview took place on Aug. 8, with an asylum officer speaking English in person and a Spanish interpreter on the phone. When we spoke in January, Susan recalled telling the officer about the persecution she suffered at school. She said she described how classmates would abuse her in the bathrooms. “They would put my head in the toilet and urinate on me.”The transcript of Susan’s credible fear interview does not include this graphic incident. Regardless, it shows that Susan clearly stated that she was threatened and discriminated against, and that students wanted to kill her. “Because I am H.I.V.-positive,” she said, “and because I am black.” She said students feared she would “contaminate” them.Susan also described an episode in which her classmates beat her legs with a stick so badly that she was taken to a hospital. There, she said, the nurses gave her “dirty looks” because they “discriminate against black girls.”Police officers spoke with Susan at the hospital. She said she told them about the attack, and that they helped her by talking to the school. When asked by the asylum officer how the police treated black people and those with H.I.V., Susan answered, “They treat them well.”The asylum officer found Susan’s overall account credible. But she made a distinction that prevented Susan from moving forward with her asylum case. She checked a box that said “credible fear of persecution NOT established.” She left unchecked all of the boxes designating asylum eligibility because of persecution. These are race, religion, political activity, nationality and membership in a particular social group. This last category could include people with H.I.V.A couple of immigration and asylum experts who viewed the transcript said Susan was rightfully rejected because she said the police were helpful. Stan Weber, an immigration lawyer in Brooklyn who previously worked for ICE, said he could see that argument, in part.Mr. Weber explained that the persecution Susan described was not from “a government actor or an agent of the government.” He added, “The parties that were inflicting the persecution or the threat of persecution were private actors.”In other words, Susan was being bullied by her classmates. Nonetheless, Mr. Weber is among several experts who believe the asylum officer was unfair to Susan, noting her youth, the possibility of a language barrier and her emotional state.Early in the transcript it notes “applicant is crying.” Shortly after, there’s another red flag.“Interpreter notes that the applicant doesn’t seem to connect terms in Spanish,” the transcript read, adding that the interpreter and applicant “might not be able to understand each other clearly.”Susan speaks both Spanish and Garifuna. She was asked if she preferred a Garifuna interpreter but she responded that she was fine continuing in Spanish. Mr. Weber said that should have given the asylum officer pause.“You have an 18-year-old child separated from her parent that doesn’t speak a primary language that you’re conversing in, that the interpreter’s indicated that there’s problems understanding, and she’s crying and she has a very stigmatized condition, H.I.V. positive,” he said. “The officer, I think, blew it.”He said the asylum officer also missed an obvious opportunity to ask about Susan’s mother, because Susan stated that they came together and that her mother had gone on to New York.Susan now claims the asylum officer pressured her to say the police were helpful. Within the transcript, she also said she was threatened at school by students about 20 times and never reported these incidents to the police “out of fear, because they told me they would hurt me more if I reported it.”Later in August, Susan asked an immigration judge to review the asylum officer’s decision. But she had no lawyer, and the hearing was conducted by video. The judge denied her appeal. Susan’s family then scraped up the money to hire Elizabeth Caballero, a lawyer in Texas, who asked U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services for a new credible fear interview. Despite additional written testimony from Susan’s mother and sister about her persecution, she was deported. Susan was put on a plane back to Honduras in November without any advance notice, Ms. Caballero said, giving her no chance to legally intervene. In her 12 years practicing immigration law, she said, only one other client was deported without any warning. She’s still angry about it.“Here we have somebody that can actually be considered part of a particular social group,” Ms. Caballero said. “And she got denied.”A spokeswoman with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said it can’t comment on individual cases. But she noted the 2010 law that allowed people with H.I.V. to enter the country. She also said the agency reviews each case on its own merit, with decisions based on relevant laws and evidence.“They didn’t want her here,” Ms. Caballero concluded, adding she suspects it’s because Susan has H.I.V. “They’re just as ignorant as the people who discriminate against her over there, in her home country.”In Queens, Ms. Batiz describes feeling at ease without the discrimination she suffered in Honduras. But she constantly worries about Susan. In January, Ms. Batiz met with her lawyer, Cristina Velez, at the Jamaica office of Queens Legal Services. They sat at a small table in a sparsely furnished conference room and made a video call to Susan in Honduras, so Ms. Velez could learn more about what happened to prepare for Ms. Batiz’s asylum claim.Susan’s oval face filled the screen of her mother’s cellphone. Now 19, she is staying with the same friends who put her family up after the 2017 fire. The two-room house is crowded, with a bedroom where seven people are sleeping. It’s crammed with belongings, and the windows are covered by wooden shutters and fabric.Susan pointed the phone to show her mother and lawyer the bright blue Caribbean sky and the bed where she sleeps. A paralegal who is fluent in Spanish was translating for Ms. Velez and everyone wanted to know one thing: Is she safe?“I do not feel safe,” Susan said through the interpreter, her voice growing animated. When Ms. Velez asked why, she described people coming to the house and threatening her.“They wear ski masks on their head and they told me that they’re going to kill me if they see me alone, and why did I come back here? I should have stayed with my mother where I was.”Susan said it has happened about six times since she returned in November, and that they sometimes pointed guns at her. “They want to kill me because I have H.I.V.,” she said. She locks herself in the house when they come. She said she doesn’t know who they are, but speculated that the men could be members of the local gangs, so common in Honduras, who have threatened her family and others in the past for refusing to cooperate with them. Susan said she only goes out with a friend occasionally, or to take a taxi to the hospital once a month for her H.I.V. medicine.After listening to this account, Ms. Velez said that Ms. Batiz has a very strong case for asylum and that Susan would have, as well. She can’t understand the logic in separating the mother and daughter.“I haven’t seen a case in which a family member who is really still dependent on the parent and whose cases overlap so entirely be separated from the family unit and not permitted to make her case,” she said.Kirad is now starting over as a freshman at a public high school in Queens with a bilingual program. She has a backpack filled with notebooks for math, history, biology and English. She thinks Susan would love the high school, and wishes they could go together.But the odds are against Susan ever joining her sister. Because she failed to persuade an asylum officer of her credible fear, and her appeal to a judge was then denied, Susan can’t try seeking asylum again. Even if she were somehow able to make the trek by herself from Honduras to the border, she would face a different process for being allowed to stay in the country because of her prior removal. The bar for passing this test would be much higher, making that “a risky proposition” according to Ms. Velez, her mother’s lawyer.Now Susan’s only hope of coming to the U.S. lies with her mother’s case. If Ms. Batiz is granted asylum, she could bring her daughter here as a dependent. Her next court date is in May, but it’s just a procedural hearing. The immigration court in New York is so backlogged it could take another year or more for her trial.Speaking from Honduras, Susan said she’s not giving up hope. She hasn’t been able to go to school for about three years. But if she makes it to the U.S., she said, she wants to go to a technical school and become a nurse. “I want to keep studying and doing something with my life,” she said.Feature“King Lear” has long been the crowning performance for actors who know how to dominate a stage. As a longstanding member of Parliament, Jackson has unique insight into authority.“It’s trying to find always the reality of being a human being as opposed to being a character in a play.”CreditCreditJack Davison for The New York TimesSupported byBy Parul SehgalIt has been a bitter season. Britain lies divided, gripped by an identity crisis, its future uncertain. Sectarian violence flares. Terrorism and freak weather. There are resurgences of deadly disease, famine, portents of worse to come. Life on this planet suddenly seems too fragile to be borne.It is the year 1606. William Shakespeare turns 42, an old man at a time when life expectancy runs to the mid-40s. His productive days seem behind him; he writes less and less. He has every incentive to retire comfortably in the country. Instead, he produces three of his major works in the span of a year: “Macbeth,” “Antony and Cleopatra” and the bleakest, greatest play in the language, “King Lear,” his colossus, a play that refracts every tension of its time — the return of the plague to London, Guy Fawkes and the plot to blow up Parliament. It is a work that seems calculated to flatter and admonish — to throw support behind King James’s effort to unify Britain but to also caution about the corruption of power.Four hundred years later in an eerily similar season, another artist is completing a hat trick of her own. After 23 years away, Glenda Jackson, 82, the two-time Oscar winner who spent the last two decades as a member of Parliament, returned to acting. In 2016 she played King Lear at the Old Vic theater in London, won a Tony Award for her turn in Edward Albee’s “Three Tall Women” last year and, this spring, she brings Lear to Broadway in a new production opening in April. The play has never felt more vibrantly responsive to the moment, to a crisis in global leadership —No, I can hear Jackson now, interrupting me. No. I think it would be remarkably arrogant to try to make Shakespeare a commentary. It has its own life.Fair enough. Next month, “King Lear” arrives on Broadway, allowing us an opportunity to see our own time reflected in the classic —You really must be more precise. She thumps the table in irritation. Shakespeare writes about humans, and humans don’t change.Very well. When Glenda Jackson brings King Lear to Broadway, what a chance it will be to see timeless concerns —Seems timely to me. Edmund complains old people die before giving their children money, when they are too old to spend it. If that’s not the millennial trope, I don’t know what is.Last time. This spring, Glenda Jackson returns to the stage in “King Lear.” Her other great vocation — her campaign against imprecision and intellectual slovenliness, obsequiousness and mediocrity in all forms — continues unabated.A bit strong. You can add “in vain,” if you like.The London production of “King Lear,” directed by Deborah Warner, was austere, Brechtian and British, with a sly indictment of Blairism. The set was constructed of white, portable panels, and actors carried their chairs on and off the stage. Jackson delivered her opening lines with her back to the audience. The Broadway play as envisioned by the director Sam Gold, however, is lush; the set, a jewel box, with brassy, Trumpian accents. Jackson’s Lear not only faces the audience but plays to us and plays with us. In the opening scene, Lear divides his kingdom among his daughters — “conferring them on younger strengths while we/Unburdened crawl toward death.” Jackson rolls the r’s in “crawl,” stretching the word long and louche, a purring lion, all easy, unstrained dominance that flares into spectacular explosions of rage.At 82, she does not look whittled, wizened or weathered or any one of those wheezy words we use for old bodies. She does not look diminished — she looks distilled, unwrapped, the long bare branches of her body mesmerizing. “Glenda is so lean, and I don’t just mean that physically,” the actor Elizabeth Marvel, who plays Goneril, told me. “I mean that emotionally, intellectually. All the fat is burned off, and you just have this brilliant diamond core.” Jackson is not the first woman to play Lear, nor does gender enter your mind as you watch her. She herself has spoken of how differences between the sexes fade with age, but her authority has always transcended any notion of gender; it has always felt like law. The first time she played Shakespeare, in 1965, one review was headlined “Ophelia, Prince of Stratford.”“There aren’t a lot of actors in the world that you can cast in a part like this, who can just enter the room and bring so much power with them,” Gold told me. “They don’t have to work or earn it, they just have it.” What is the source of that power? Jackson is the smallest person on stage, but you won’t notice it — she arrives cascading over the language, dominating it. In this way Jackson gives us the only truly contemporary interpretation of Lear I’ve ever seen, a king whose command relies not on brute might but in the ability to manipulate words. The actor playing Lear must not only embody authority but also slough it off in front of us, almost presenting the aging process brutally sped up. The ritual aspect of this transformation is of particular interest to Gold, who has directed stripped-down interpretations of Shakespeare, including “Othello” in 2016. “Glenda is going to do something very intense, very special, very big,” he said. “She is going to go through something most people don’t go through. You’re all invited. Glenda Jackson is going to endure this, and you’re going to witness it.”For most of its history, this ritual has been considered too traumatizing for the stage. Shakespeare himself worried the conclusion was too bleak; he appears to have softened it slightly a few years after the play was first put on. Still, for 150 years an adapted version, with a happy ending, was performed. In the kingdom of Lear, there is no consolation. Characters learn to see the truth only after their eyes are gouged out; they learn to love their children only as they mourn them. Lear dies of heartbreak, annihilated, his last line a howl. It is a play of such immensities — of sorrow and language — that it has been described as too big for the stage, a literary achievement and not a dramatic one, or even a natural phenomenon in its own right: a volcano to the essayist Charles Lamb, a hurricane to the poet Samuel Coleridge and to the critic William Hazlitt, the sea: “swelling, chafing, raging, without bound, without hope, without beacon, or anchor.” This is not to mention the deep, dislocating strangeness of the play itself. The improbabilities in the plot alone have kept scholars busy for close to 400 years. It is set in 800 B.C. yet all signs point to the Middle Ages. Lear and the villain, Edmund, never interact. There is an odd lack of stage directions and that superfluous subplot, the story of Gloucester, which just echoes the main action (a father betrayed by his child).The deepest strangeness of all: None of this matters. Critics have argued that the play is greater for these inconsistencies — more vast, as capricious and real as the world itself.Lear remains the crowning role of the most powerful actors of their generations. “When you’re younger, Lear doesn’t feel real,” Laurence Olivier once said. “When you get to my age, you are Lear in every nerve of your body.” Most performances follow in the footsteps of Paul Scofield, who played the king as a grizzled military man in the 1962 Peter Brook production, later a film. Ian McKellen put his slant on the role, making Lear a priestly figure; Christopher Plummer played him as a dementia patient.Jackson’s approach owes to none of these. In previews this month, she looked slim as a match, dapper in a tuxedo and gleaming shoes. This is not Lear as I’ve known him, burly and braying. This is Lear as tactician, Lear as brain as well as body, who suffers not only the betrayals of his daughters and the mortifications of age but the limitations of living with his own mind. It is a role known for volume; the originality of Jackson’s performance is its inwardness. We see how power works not just on the world but on the self — how it distorts perception. I saw it one night in a small gesture. Lear has banished Cordelia, his favorite daughter, for her failure to flatter him. He coiled up in his throne and shook his head angrily, in disbelief, and repeated that gesture throughout the act, shading its motion and meaning subtly each time, from disgust to denial, as if tossing away a rogue thought, the suspicion that he has made a terrible mistake. Jackson shows us the effort that power has to expend to not know, to stay blind.She steers clear of academic interpretations of “King Lear.” It’s all in the text, she says, and she builds her characters from the smallest reaction. “It’s trying to find always the reality of being a human being as opposed to being a character in a play,” she told me. “They don’t know they’re in a play. They’re living their lives. It’s that; it’s trying to find that reality.” You could make a study of the movement of Jackson’s right hand alone: how it floats up and clutches at the heart in the second act, as the knowledge that Lear can’t shake off — of his elder daughters’ cruelty and his own folly — begins to lodge in the body; how it jabs at his daughters as he fires maledictions upon them; how it opens and closes as he succumbs to madness, grasping at air. And in the final scene, Lear reaches for Cordelia’s lifeless hand and runs it over his face — she is finally as real to him as he is to himself.“She does it differently every night,” Ruth Wilson, who plays Cordelia and the Fool, told me. “It never goes stale. Sometimes in the storm scene, she’s pushing the Fool off, sometimes holding him close. That’s what Lear would be doing. You have to constantly move around this person who’s volatile, and you don’t know which way the wind is blowing with them, and you have to kind of negotiate with them. That’s what she’s like on the stage.”Who’s afraid of Glenda Jackson? Most people, and with some cause. She became famous for her electrifying portrayals of history and literature’s most unconventional women: Queen Elizabeth in the British TV series “Elizabeth R,” Hedda Gabler, Gudrun in Ken Russell’s film of the D.H. Lawrence novel “Women in Love,” released in Britain in 1969. In life she has proved no less formidable; the stories are legion, dark and thrilling, assuming you’re not on your way to interview her yourself. There is the journalist she famously called “a patronizing git.” There is an interview from last year in which she turned so gladiatorial toward a Los Angeles Times critic even she was taken aback. “I’ve frightened you,” she told him, chastened, and suggested he “get some rest.” A 1999 biography of the actor by Chris Bryant, a fellow Labor politician, reads rather like a group-therapy session of colleagues and directors processing their unsettling encounters with her.I first met Jackson in January, at a restaurant near her hotel in New York. Rehearsals for the play had just begun. She arrived, brisk and bundled in a black puffy coat over a checked dress, and immediately ordered a glass of white wine. “Pour it out,” she said, waving away the offer to taste it first. “I smoke so I have no — what do they call it these days?” She glanced at the menu, ordered “the salmon thingie thingie” and looked at me expectantly. “Fire away.”“A-ma-zing,” she said, when the food arrived: slabs of lox fanned out and enormous, like a fleshy, quivering petticoat. There are words she says so distinctly that they are hers: the emphatic “ab-solutely,” the caress of “a-ma-zing,” her witheringly indifferent “quite” and, all variants of “no,” “not” and “never.” Her voice — called one of the theater’s great instruments — remains unchanged; it is still warm, deep and honeyed, like wood cracking apart in a fire. Her large, expressive hands sliced and framed each argument.We met through the winter on Sundays, her day off, her day for laundry and ironing and calling home to London. Jackson shares a home with her son, the political columnist Dan Hodges. Of his conservative leanings she has said, “I think you have done quite well as a parent if your kid holds positions totally opposite to your own.” She lives in the basement apartment, and when she’s not working, she’s on grandmother duty, caring for her 11-year-old grandson. “We have fierce fights about what he watches on the bloody computer,” she said. Every time we met, she arrived punctually and apologized for being late, wearing more often than not a soft lavender sweatshirt with a silhouette of Tintin and eating exactly half of what was on her plate.“Shakespeare is the most contemporary writer there is,” Jackson told me. “He only ever really asks three questions: Who are we? Why are we? What are we? And no one has ever come up with the comprehensive answer to any of those questions.” “King Lear” is “entirely about human beings — their interactions and their failure to interact, to understand each other. Which we all know. We presume we know people by virtue of having known them for a long time. Of course we never really do.”Has anyone presumed to know Jackson? Her biographer found her privacy impossible to breach. During their interview sessions, she sat with her back to him. “The mystery is what makes her so compelling onstage and on film,” Bryant has said. “You can sense the sharp intelligence, the grit, but you don’t know what is going on.” Her inwardness is key to her appeal, that nervy detachment. “Staccato, wrenchingly modern,” Pauline Kael once called her. It’s why she is so enjoyable to watch in her worst movies. Take the 1973 film “A Touch of Class,” which won her an Oscar, a romantic comedy in the Hepburn-Tracy mode, in which Jackson plays a castrating career woman who must be brought to heel. Her lines are ridiculous (so is that broomlike wig), but her acting is full of integrity and private amusement, delivered over the shoulder of the hero, to the camera — to us. It isn’t the cross-gender casting of Lear that feels so striking about Jackson’s performance; it is seeing an actor who specializes in control and self-knowledge take on the unraveling patriarch who has “ever but slenderly known himself.”Like all well-defended people, however, Jackson seems privately moved, even impressed by vulnerability, as if it were a luxury she can’t yet afford. When she met Stevie Smith, the English poet she would later portray in the 1978 film “Stevie,” she was stirred: “There wasn’t a single protective curve anywhere in her body.” In my own haplessness, I, too, become the object of her gruff gallantry and concern. Who was minding my small daughter when we were off together? Is her father good with her? Do I need a ride? Money for lunch? When is my deadline? So soon? Under no circumstances, however, would she accept such solicitude from me; she would hand it right back, like an armful of rotting fish. She once mentioned that it was sometimes difficult to get her family on the phone on Sundays. I made consoling noises. “That’s hard,” I said. “It’s not hard,” she snapped. “They’re out a lot.”Thorns are, of course, aborted branches. Jackson bloomed when we shifted off the topic of her and her work. She was keen to talk about children, Emily Dickinson, the enormousness of American serving portions, the “glorious” television show “Parks and Recreation” and, with much frustrated thumping of the table, Brexit (“What is Jeremy Corbyn doing? I wonder he can sit down, he’s been on the fence so long”).“For me, the two most important words in the English language are ‘Only connect,’ ” she told me, quoting E.M. Forster. But with Jackson, you feel that injunction has as much to do with a desire to forge connection with other people as with maintaining, and protecting, a connection with the self and with reality, hence that almost phobic refusal of sympathy and any kind of special dispensation. When she spoke of artists she admired — Emily Dickinson and Stevie Smith — it was for how they combined the wild “landscape” in their minds with the simplicity of their lives and the unfussy way they met their social obligations. “I don’t like the starry sort of life,” she told her biographer. “The more remote you become from people, the more difficult it is to act, I think. Most lives are not comprised of enormous tragedies or enormous joys, but they are comprised of tiny little pin pricks, of having to queue at the butchers or it’s raining when you’re waiting for a bus.”Jackson was born in 1936 in the Cheshire region of Northern England, the eldest of four daughters. Her father hauled bricks at construction sites, and her mother cleaned houses and pulled pints at the pub. When the war broke out, Jackson’s father joined the minesweepers, and the women took over — her mother, aunts and grandmother. These women, as she described them, were her first, most decisive piece of good luck. “Their lives hadn’t dealt them a particularly good hand by any stretch of the imagination,” she said. “But they had no small sense of humor. They had grace. All those cliché things like it’s no use crying over spilt milk or all that were very real. Life had to be lived. You had to get on and do it. It was very valuable to me.”This is the very lesson of Lear, delivered in rhyming cadences. When Gloucester, blinded and betrayed, collapses in anguish, his son Edgar urges him on: “Men must endure/ Their going hence, even as their coming hither;/ Ripeness is all.” It kept happening as I spoke to Jackson. She would begin by telling me about herself, and we would veer into Lear. The text is never out of her hands, she told me; I felt as if she were merging with it.She was always a ravenous reader, if an indifferent student; she tried to read every book in her local public library. She loved the Brontës, and her political awakening was stirred by Sinclair Lewis. At 16, she failed her exams, left school and took a job working at Boots the Chemists. She had been raised to have no expectations, she told me, but something had begun to nag at her. “There had to be more to life than what I was experiencing, and I had more to give than what was being asked of me.” She started doing amateur theater and was told she was promising. She wrote to the only drama school she’d ever heard of, the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art, and wangled herself a scholarship.One of her first acting jobs was in Crewe, in the north of England, “half acting, half stage-managing and full-time sweeping the floor.” She met and married Roy Hodges, a part-time actor. (They divorced almost 20 years later.) They occasionally slept on the stage of the theater, in a four-poster bed sourced for a production. Lean years followed. Jackson worked odd jobs, waitressed and even stole food. For two years she didn’t get any theater work. Her break came when she auditioned for the Royal Shakespeare Company’s experimental Theater of Cruelty, directed by Peter Brook and Charles Marowitz. They wanted to launch an attack on staid English theater, to make it more visceral and less literary. “In came a very curious figure, a hidden, shy and yet aggressive, badly dressed girl who seemed resentful of everything,” Brook recalled of Jackson’s audition. She did a reading from Shakespeare and a Dorothy Parker short story, which she was asked to play as a woman incarcerated in a psychiatric hospital by her husband, trying to persuade others of her sanity. “There was,” she said, “a fair amount of rolling around and shouting.”She made her name with uninhibited performances: a star-making turn as the narcoleptic assassin Charlotte Corday in “Marat/Sade” and as a composite of Christine Keeler and Jackie Kennedy in an infamous collage piece in which she was supposedly the first actor to appear naked on the London stage.Jackson won two best-actress Oscars in four years, for “Women in Love” and “A Touch of Class.” Presenting her with the New York Film Critics Circle Award for “Women in Love,” Bette Davis said she felt like Margo Channing, the star of “All About Eve,” being supplanted by a younger rival. Jackson chafed at celebrity, however. She gloated about wearing a £2 dress from Marks & Spencer to meet Jackie Kennedy (“with the rest of them dripping diamonds down to their navels”) and didn’t attend either of the Academy Awards ceremonies at which she won. She passed along her Oscars to her mother, who displayed them in her front room and polished them so religiously that the gold disappeared and the base metal beneath was revealed. “A very good analogy,” Jackson likes to say.A revulsion for Hollywood and its fraudulence still lingers. She told me about a friend who had been invited to one of Alfred Hitchcock’s parties for the A-list. Everything he served was blue. The potatoes were blue. The cauliflower was blue. The sauce was blue — “and nobody, nobody said a word. I bet he and Mrs. Hitchcock roared with laughter going to bed at all these sanctimonious sods who were afraid to say, ‘Why have you given me blue cauliflower?’ ” (Seen this way, Jackson’s famous bluntness feels like a way of staying primed for a blue-cauliflower situation.)“He was bizarre,” she said of Hitchcock. “And his treatment of that one in ‘The Birds’ —”“Tippi Hedren,” I said. “Wasn’t she institutionalized?”“He kept her out of work,” she said, making me feel as if I’d missed the real indignity. Hedren accused Hitchcock of sexually assaulting her and having her blacklisted for years.I asked if she felt vulnerable as a young actress. “You’re entirely dependent on what may come through the door,” she said. “I always say — when someone tells me, ‘I’m thinking of being an actor, what do you think?’ — ‘If you’re thinking about it, don’t go anywhere near it. If it’s not life or death, don’t touch it.’ ”It came as a surprise when Jackson left acting in 1992 to become a Labor M.P. from Hampstead and Highgate in North London, but she had been approached before. (“They must be bloody hard up,” she had said to her agent.) She had long been outspoken about her opposition to Thatcherism and also her disappointment in the roles offered to women. “If women are ever shown to have problems in a film, they are always emotional problems,” she said. “What about the other problems, the other issues that women face every day of their lives? I haven’t seen a woman take a stand on a moral issue in a film for about 20 years, not since Bette Davis played that librarian in ‘Storm Center.’ ”Entering politics allowed her to write that very role. She committed herself utterly; in her 23 years in Parliament, she told me that she didn’t see a single play. She was an outspoken critic of the Iraq War and Tony Blair; she said he “suffered from the insolence of office” (a quote from Hamlet). She gave passionate speeches in support of the welfare state and condemned Margaret Thatcher’s legacy in the House of Commons days after her death in 2013. It might be one of her most indelible performances. She stood alone, in a red cardigan, facing a bank of dark-suited men. “My honorable friend from Hackney referred to the fact that although she had differed with Lady Thatcher in her policies, she felt dutybound to come to pay tribute to the first woman prime minister this country had produced. I am of a generation who was raised by women; the men had all gone to war to defend our freedoms — they didn’t just run a government; they ran a country.” The Royal Academy of Dramatic Art diction was clear, and her voice rose effortlessly over the braying. She spoke with relish, tasting each word: “To pay tribute to the first prime minister deputed by female gender? O.K. But a woman?” She raised her chin. “Not on my terms.”She started seeing the seeds of Brexit 10 years ago, perhaps longer. “What backbench M.P.s like me were getting on the street were complaints from our constituents: no affordable housing, couldn’t get their kids into school, the National Health Service was being overworked, wages were going down in jobs and it was all the fault of immigrants,” she said. “People who wouldn’t know, in my country, an immigrant if one came up and hit them in the face were the first to say, ‘Get these people out.’ ”She was reluctant, however, when I asked what specifically she worked on, what her proudest achievements were. The people she helped knew what they were, she said. I tried to ask again in different ways; every time, my questions pinged off her hull. Jackson can remind you of Cordelia in the way she hoards her deepest feelings and her refusal to appease.She stepped down before the 2015 election. It was “time to let someone else have a go,” she said. Casting around for a role, she was inspired by her friend the Spanish actress Núria Espert’s playing Lear in Barcelona and approached the Old Vic. The reviews were glowing. “Could it be that a seasoning in the daily parry and thrust of the House of Commons has kept Ms. Jackson’s wit and acumen, not to mention her capacity for language, razor sharp?” Matt Wolf, a theater critic for The New York Times, wrote.Jackson’s standard line was that theater would never tolerate the kind of egos she encountered in Parliament. But there are links between acting and politics, and on this topic, she is at her most fluent. Each require stripping down to the essence of who we are and what we need. In the case of acting, that process can be mysterious; it is a process, she has said, that no one can even define. She told me the famous, possibly apocryphal story about Laurence Olivier performing Othello at the Old Vic, performing as he never had before. The cast watched him, rapt from the wings. The crowd went wild. And he went straight to his dressing room and began smashing it up. “In typical theater courage,” Jackson said, the youngest member of the crew was sent to investigate: “ ‘Sir Laurence, we don’t understand. You were absolutely wonderful.’ ‘I know,’ he responded. ‘But I don’t know why.’ ”In those moments, she told me, even if you don’t know why, an energy is produced and sent into the dark. The audience responds and sends the light back, forming a perfect, unbound, unbroken circle. “It is the model of an ideal society,” incumbent on everyone working together. “It doesn’t always happen, but it has happened enough to know that it’s possible.”Weeks later, watching a preview, I saw that light come streaming off the stage. It was the storm scene, the furious heart of the play. Lear stalks the heath with his loyal friend Kent and the Fool. The theater was slashed with bright lightning, and the characters hurled themselves against a metal wall to simulate thunder. Jackson was chalk-white under the lights, stripped down to a singlet and lit up like the Parthenon, a fabulous ruin. Her hair was wet and matted, and she bit off each word, spittle popping off her lips, her hands cutting the air, eyes rolling around in her head — a figure of terrifying aloneness and confrontation. She gazed into the audience, pitilessly, an emissary from our collective futures: “Poor naked wretches.” The scene built and built without cresting, Lear flinging off Kent and the Fool who tried to cover and protect him. Finally the action of the play turned elsewhere. The three retreated to one side of the stage. Jackson sat down and closed her eyes; she looked emptied. The Fool curled up next to her, grimaced and whispered something. She did not open her eyes. She did not respond.Jackson was asked in an interview when she returned to Broadway last year, to star in “Three Tall Women,” if acting was depleting. “No,” she said emphatically. But then her voice softened, and it sounded as if she were seeing something for the first time. “In a strange kind of way you should have nothing to take home. You should have put everything that has to be put on that stage,” she said. “Shame on you if you have something to take home.”On the stage, after a minute, Jackson opened her eyes, focused. She charged the stage again; the storm strengthened. She raised her arms and caught a bit of the lightning.“The age thing was potent last night,” Jackson said to me.It was our final meeting, and she had stopped letting her P.R. people make our reservations. No more fancy restaurants. She had chosen a place herself; a warm, shabby diner. I met her outside, already defeated by the day: a sleepless child, a lost wallet and the encroaching light paranoia induced by the morning’s string of bad luck. I hadn’t smoked in years, but I bummed a cigarette off Jackson and smoked quickly, worried she was getting cold while she waited. “Don’t rush,” she said grandly. “You’re just killing yourself.” We stood together in the sun amid a bank of melting snow.The play had entered previews, and her schedule was grueling. Rehearsals at midday were followed by a short break for dinner then the nightly performance. But work clearly simultaneously relaxes and energizes Jackson. She was open and voluble that day, ruminative. Her large hand lay open on the table between us, like a flower. Stories from her childhood came tumbling out on top of one another, the one and only time her father raised his voice to the children, when one of Jackson’s sisters dressed up the cat in doll clothes; the way her mother would check her daughter’s shoes when she came home to visit to make sure she had enough money. “It’s a curious thing,” she said. “It’s an absurd thing to say. Of course she’s dead. I mean — all of my family apart from one sister — my immediate family is dead. But I still find myself walking past a shop and thinking, I must get that for my mum.”A friend of hers was in the audience the previous night and told her how moved the audience had been by Jackson’s performance, by “the age thing,” as Jackson puts it, that intimation of what was to come. I asked her if she ever feared getting older. She shook her head, mouth full of waffle. The invisibility of youth had been the indignity. Age has been more annoyance than anything else. “The essential you is on the inside, it stays the same,” she told me. “I mean, the envelope you inhabit doesn’t respond as it should. My handwriting is appalling, this arm shakes for no good reason. I have backache. You’re getting old, so what? But it’s irritating.”Gloria Steinem once said that getting older was like falling off a cliff; there were no women she thought she could emulate. I wanted to tell Jackson this, about having had this feeling and not having it anymore. I wanted to tell her something about her beauty and asperity, about watching her catch the lightning in her hands onstage, but she would have yelled at me and told me to stop being sentimental. Plus, she was getting up to go. “I can leave you a cigarette,” she said, pulled a Dunhill from the pack and slid it across the table. “But I won’t leave you my lighter. You’ll have to find someone to help you.”I smoked her cigarette outside the diner and scanned the streets for her silhouette, the way she would move quickly but carefully through the slushy sidewalk, shoulders back, duty discharged. Jackson hums as she walks. It’s an old habit. Once, as she walked through her constituency, humming, two young girls started following her. They trailed her for some time. They told her they wanted to hear what happened next. I was embarrassed by my desire to do the same. Tell me what happens next, Glenda.I returned to the table to gather my things and pay the bill, only to be interrupted by her for the last time. In my open notebook, I saw her words in my hand. We had been talking about Shakespeare; “the man,” she calls him affectionately, “Mr. William.” “I’ve held in my hands a folio edition of ‘Antony and Cleopatra,’ ” she had said. “There is one full stop in that play. It’s after the last line.”Parul Sehgal is a book critic for The Times and a former senior editor and columnist at the Book Review.Hair and makeup: Kristina Ralph Andrews