AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMADRID — The administration of President Jair Bolsonaro is considering a dramatic change in the council that oversees Brazil's environmental policy, replacing a broad-based panel of independent voices with a small group of political appointees, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press.Activists say they fear the move, which reflects Bolsonaro's oft-stated skepticism about environmental organizations, could lead to more deforestation and less oversight in the nation that holds about 60% of the vast Amazon rainforest, which scientists see as crucial for efforts to slow global warming and for the world climate systems.A policy roadmap drafted by Bolsonaro's transition team before he took office Jan. 1 proposes a decree creating a "government council" to replace Brazil's National Council of the Environment, which has almost 100 members, including representatives of independent environmental and business groups. The new body would consist of five presidential appointees plus Environment Minister Ricardo Salles, who is one of the authors of the plan.The documents, first published by the Brazilian Climate Observatory environmental group, were obtained and verified by the AP.Brazil's Environment Ministry did not reply to a request for comment.Part of the transition plan has already come into force. The country's forestry service, aimed at promoting "knowledge, sustainable use and widening of forestry coverage," was transferred to the Agriculture Ministry on Bolsonaro's second day in office. On the same day, the Agriculture Ministry was given the power to determine the limits of indigenous lands, rather than Brazil's official indigenous rights agency.As a congressman and candidate, Bolsonaro often questioned the reality of climate change and cast environmental groups as foreign-influenced meddlers restraining Brazil's economic growth by holding back mining and agriculture — stances that resemble those of U.S. President Donald Trump, who before taking office described the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as a "disgrace" that largely should be dismantled.The authors of Bolsonaro's transition plan say the current Environment Council, known as CONAMA, is a "confusing" body that "acts emotionally, without due technique, being subjected to ideological interference."In another transition team document, lawyer Antonio Fernando Pinheiro Pedro argues that CONAMA's decisions have led to "the emission of norms and standards that are far from reality."In an interview shortly after his election, Bolsonaro complained that it could sometimes take a decade to get an environmental license. "That will not continue," he said.While officials haven't yet formally proposed the smaller council, there has already been increased friction over CONAMA. Security guards blocked alternate members of the council from joining the main meeting at a March 20 session in the capital of Brasilia, breaking a long tradition of wide-open debate in Brazil's top environmental council.Carlos Rittl, executive secretary of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, which includes several nonprofit groups, said he believes that chaotic meeting was "more evidence that the plan (for a smaller council) is indeed being implemented.""Deforestation ended 2018 on the rise. It is on the rise in 2019, but we haven't heard a word from the minister about that. We have heard about limiting the access to civil society so we can't have a fair discussion," Rittl said.Former Environment Minister Rubens Ricupero speculated the new administration may have delayed creating the new council due to public anger over the collapse of a mine dam near the city of Brumadinho in January that killed at least 223 people, with 70 still missing.Ricupero noted that Bolsonaro's chief of staff suggested closing the environmental ministry during the campaign, but said that the powerful agribusiness lobby is afraid such a move would damage trade and has prevented any such move."Then Brumadinho showed that our problem is not excessive care in environmental licensing — it is the lack of it," Ricupero said.He added that hopes Bolsonaro would engage with environmentalists have not come to pass.Bolsonaro recently defended his environmental ideas at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, saying that Brazil "is the country that most preserves the environment" and that "those that criticize us actually have a lot to learn from us."The Bolsonaro transition plan also suggested closing the federal agency that oversees conservation zones such as national parks and biological reserves and issues fines for violation of environmental laws there. Many of those penalties are never paid, but several Brazilian agribusiness leaders have complained about them over the years.Pinheiro Pedro, the transition team lawyer, wrote that the agency should be folded into the Environment Institute, which enforces other environmental legislation and aims to promote the sustainable the use of natural resources. He said the two have "the same objective" and streamlining environmental governance is key to "avoid international interference."Rittl, of the Brazilian Climate Observatory, said he believes that change would reduce oversight in key areas by diluting the focus of regulators.Environmentalists also took umbrage at the language used in the transition documents, though the tone echoes Bolsonaro's own pronouncements.The plan says NGOs involved in climate change discussions are "uncontrollable organisms" that need to be stopped so the system is "closer to ministerial control." It also contends Brazil's environmental governance is crafted to give jobs to political appointees, describing that as "a risk to national sovereignty."Emilio Bruna, a tropical ecologist focused on the Amazon who is based at the University of Florida, said the transition plan shows the "worst fears" about Bolsonaro's presidency "are starting to come true.""Scientists are not only concerned about the government not creating new protected areas, but also the downgrading of existing protections in the rainforest," he said. "There was already a culture of impunity, but now it's being reinforced."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressRIO DE JANEIRO — The administration of President Jair Bolsonaro plans to auction seven offshore oil fields in the northeast despite contrary advice from analysts of Brazil's main environmental body, according to documents obtained by the Associated Press.Environmentalists say it's the latest example of how Bolsonaro, who campaigned on promises to revive Latin America's largest economy by cutting red tape, is pushing aside warnings and scientific evidence in the name of progress. It comes at a time when Brazil, one of the world's largest oil producers and energy consumers, is moving toward the privatization of several industries, including offshore exploration."There is no need to explore these areas," said Carlos Rittl, executive secretary of environmental group Climate Observatory. "This decision is in line with a government that sees the environment as an obstacle."Brazil's environment institute, called IBAMA, enforces legislation and aims to promote the sustainable the use of natural resources. IBAMA analysts recommended against the exploration of oil in seven out of 42 offshore fields originally offered for auction in March by regulating body Brazilian Petroleum Agency.Three of the fields to be auctioned in October are in the Jacuipe Basin and four in the Camamu-Almada region, both in the waters off the coast of the northeastern state of Bahia.Appointed by Bolsonaro, the new head of the institute, Eduardo Bim, rejected its analysis, which warned that exploration of "highly sensitivity areas" could lead to spills.The study, dated March 18, also said spills could lead to the destruction of the Abrolhos islands, an area of 353 square miles (913 square kilometers). Four of Abrolhos' five islands are home to a marine national park with rare coral formations, tropical fish, whales, seabirds, turtles and dolphins.The dispute within IBAMA was first published by daily O Estado de S. Paulo. The documents were obtained and verified by the AP.IBAMA analysts said the blocks are in regions that have never been tapped, which require more "strategic studies that could evaluate the aptitude of the area." The document said those studies are needed to give investors "more legal protection" in the case of an accident.The analysts also wrote that a spill could get to the coast and the island chain within two days, and authorities would not be prepared to respond quickly or adequately to protect marine life."Add to that the fact the impact of a spill of large proportions over mangroves and corals are in general irreversible, harming the local economy and health," the document said.In response, Bim said in a letter to the environmental ministry, dated April 1, that he doesn't "see the need of exclusion of the (seven) fields as suggested by technical information." He did not detail why he believed it was fine to ignore the warnings.In a statement, IBAMA said that it, along with the environmental and energy ministries, agreed the auction was viable. The auction "means neither automatic authorization for tapping oil and gas nor the anticipation of the result of the environmental licensing." The institute said that studies on possible spills will still be required.The statement also said that previous auctions were made in oil fields that sit closer to the Abrolhos marine park than the ones expected to go on sale in October.Carlos Minc, Brazil's environmental minister between 2008 and 2010, said he had blocked attempts to explore for oil near Abrolhos because the migration of whales and dolphins in the region would be affected by ships."Humpback whales left the list of animals under threat of extinction because of this. How could Brazil be taking this step back?" Minc said. "We have to stop them from destroying our marine biodiversity in the name of profits."Brazil is the world's ninth largest producer of oil in the world, and the third largest in the Americas, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration. In 2016, Brazil produced 3.24 million barrels per day of petroleum and other derivatives. Brazil is also the eighth-largest total energy consumer in the world.Bolsonaro has often said environmental protections should not block business. Before taking office Jan. 1, he promised to remove Brazil from the Paris agreement on climate change. He has since back-peddled, saying Brazil would remain in the agreement.Earlier this month, the AP reported that Bolsonaro's administration plans to drastically change a council that oversees the country's environmental policy, replacing a broad-based panel with a small group of appointees.IBAMA's Bim and Environment Minister Ricardo Salles are among the authors of the plan.According with Bolsonaro's plan, IBAMA would soon absorb the attributions of the federal agency that protects conservation zones such as national parks and biological reserves, including the Abrolhos maritime park that would be endangered by oil fields.Bim, Salles and the other authors of the study said in the plan that the move was necessary to streamline environmental governance and "avoid international interference" in Brazil.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMADRID — Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro is considering a dramatic change in the council that oversees Brazil's environmental policy, replacing a broad-based panel of independent voices with a small group of political appointees, according to documents obtained by The Associated Press.Activists say they fear the move could lead to more deforestation and less oversight in the nation that holds about 60% of the vast Amazon rainforest.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The U.S. government, fearing Peru had recently acted to weaken its ability to stop illegal logging, has used a 2009 trade treaty's environmental provisions to stop Lima from eliminating its forestry regulator, the United States Trade Representative said on Tuesday.In January, the United States requested consultations under the environmental chapter of the Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA), which went into force in 2009, to oppose Peru's decision to place its logging regulator OSINFOR under the environmental ministry.The trade deal, agreed in 2007, included a provision requiring OSINFOR to be an independent agency. Americans feared the Peruvian move could have undermined OSINFOR's independence and hindered its ability to effectively enforce Peru's forestry laws, USTR said.Following technical consultations in January and deliberations by the PTPA environmental affairs council in February, Peru reversed course, annulling the December decision on April 9."This shows that strong enforcement works," USTR chief Robert Lighthizer said in a statement. AdvertisementSupported byThe mining industry puts lives at risk with shoddy maintenance of dams built to contain mining waste. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.After the catastrophic rupture of a mine-tailings dam in Brazil last week, leaving behind at least 110 dead, 238 missing and an environmental disaster of epic proportions, the police were quick to arrest five people who had been responsible for inspecting the dam and who most recently proclaimed it “stable.” Certainly they had erred, and courts will decide whether they did so criminally. But rounding up the usual suspects does not begin to address responsibility for a disaster of this scale and a danger many mining communities face around the world.Tailings are the wet waste from mining operations, often laced with toxic chemicals. At thousands of mines around the world, millions of tons of the muck accumulate behind dams. The most common type of dam — and the cheapest to build — is known as “upstream,” made by piling up thick sludge and raising the height of the dam as the pond grows. At the mine where the accident occurred in southeastern Brazil, owned by the giant mining company Vale, the dam was 28 stories high.The danger posed by tailings dams is well known. Three years ago another upstream dam in the same Brazilian state, Minas Gerais, and co-owned by Vale and Australia’s BHP Group, collapsed, killing 19 people. The muck from that mine flowed 400 miles to the Atlantic Ocean. Other dams have collapsed in many countries around the world, and while the overall number of failures each year has been declining, the occurrence of major collapses has increased. According to the database World Mine Tailings Failures, there were 46 “serious” or “very serious” collapses — such as those in Brazil — between 1998 and 2017.One reason is increased rainfall because of climate change, which can erode a dam wall years after the tailings pool is no longer in use. One study found that heavy rain was cited as a contributor to a quarter of global dam failures. Given that there are thousands of tailings dams around the world, and that mining companies generate ever more waste — they produced 8.5 billion metric tons in 2017, more than double the amount in 2000, according to an Australian researcher — the dams pose a danger that arresting a few workers won’t address.The cost of failures is high, as Vale is learning. Shares in the company plunged 24 percent on the Monday after the Friday accident, and Vale is likely to face billions of dollars in penalties. That cost alone should propel Vale and the rest of the mining industry to take an immediate look at the way that they dispose of mining sludge and to inspect their dams. A joint report in November 2017 by the United Nations Environment Program and the Norwegian foundation GRID-Arendal found that in most failures, there had been ample advance warning signs. “The tragedy is that the warning signs were either ignored or not recognized by under-resourced management,” the report said.After the 2015 accident in the state of Minas Gerais, state and federal investigators urged hiring more dam inspectors. But the federal government slashed budgets, in effect leaving Vale and other companies to do their own monitoring. It’s far from certain that the government will do better this time: Brazil’s new right-wing president, Jair Bolsonaro, has already hobbled environmental regulators, and his infrastructure minister has warned against the “demonization” of Vale.Vale, by contrast, has been quick to pledge changes. Fabio Schvartsman, its chief executive, said Tuesday that the company had decided to stop operations at mines where another 10 upstream dams were still in use until all were fully decommissioned, a process likely to take one to three years. The dam that burst last week had been out of use for two and a half years, he said, and was in the process of being decommissioned.The global mining industry should take heed. It is clear that the industry needs to take a close look at upstream dams, to establish strict international standards for the way they are built and inspected and to study alternative ways to dispose of their wastes.AdvertisementSupported byIn the 21st century, environmental policy is economic policy. By Jedediah Britton-PurdyMr. Britton-Purdy is the author, most recently, of “After Nature: A Politics for the Anthropocene.”Everyone is lining up to endorse the Green New Deal — or to mock it. Kamala Harris, Cory Booker, Bernie Sanders, Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand have all endorsed the resolution sponsored by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts.Conservative critics predictably call it “a shocking document” and “a call for enviro-socialism in America,” but liberal condescension has cut deeper. The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, essentially dismissed it as branding, saying, “The green dream, or whatever they call it, nobody knows what it is, but they’re for it, right?” Others have criticized it for leaving out any mention of a carbon tax, a cornerstone of mainstream climate-policy proposals, while embracing a left-populist agenda that includes universal health care, stronger labor rights and a jobs guarantee. What do these goals have to do with stabilizing atmospheric carbon levels before climate change makes large parts of the world uninhabitable? What has taken liberal critics aback is that the Green New Deal strays so far from the traditional environmental emphasis on controlling pollution, which the carbon tax aims to do, and tries to solve the problems of economic inequality, poverty and even corporate concentration (there’s an antimonopoly clause).But this everything-and-the-carbon-sink strategy is actually a feature of the approach, not a bug, and not only for reasons of ideological branding. In the 21st century, environmental policy is economic policy. Keeping the two separate isn’t a feat of intellectual discipline. It’s an anachronism.Our carbon emissions are not mainly about the price of gasoline or electricity. They’re about infrastructure. For every human being, there are over 1,000 tons of built environment: roads, office buildings, power plants, cars and trains and long-haul trucks. It is a technological exoskeleton for the species. Everything most of us do, we do through it: calling our parents, getting to work, moving for a job, taking the family on vacation, finding food for the evening or staying warm in a polar vortex. Just being human in this artificial world implies a definite carbon footprint — and for that matter, a trail of footprints in water use, soil compaction, habitat degradation and pesticide use. You cannot change the climate impact of Americans without changing the built American landscape.So the proposals to retrofit buildings, retool transportation and build a clean-energy system are simply ways of tackling the problem where it starts. They are public-works projects because large capital projects — especially ones that, like highways, involve widespread public benefit — have always required public money. They are jobs programs, unless robots do the work, so the jobs might as well be good. The deeper point is that any economic policy is a jobs policy. The oil and gas sector provides at least 1.4 million American jobs, more if you believe industry estimates, and depends on public subsidies and infrastructure. You might say that producing the disaster of global climate change has taken a lot of economic policy and produced a lot of jobs programs. Reversing direction will take the same. Since environmental policy can happen only through economic policy, there is no avoiding decisions about what sorts of work there will be, and in which industries. It’s unsettling, but maybe a little less so when you consider that we’ve been doing it all along, usually without owning up to it.Take the Green New Deal’s proposal to work with family farmers and ranchers to reduce the carbon footprint of agriculture. It might sound like a sop to rural representatives, the locavore caucus of the Democratic Socialists of America, or both. (And that wouldn’t make it wrong.) But food is our everyday metabolism with the natural world, which is why agriculture emits 9 percent of United States carbon, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. (Other estimates are considerably higher.)Forty percent of our land is farmed or ranched, which is to say, the soil is basically conscripted as a food factory. The food system is already pervasively shaped by the Farm Bill, which spends nearly $15 billion per year on subsidies and $10 billion on conservation measures, deeply shaping what farmers grow and where, and tending to benefit large, industrially oriented operations. Food production can be much less carbon-intensive with changed practices in cropping, fertilizing, irrigation and waste management, many of them well suited to small farming. Moving in that direction, though, would require rattling the cage of big American agriculture.As with energy, getting lawmaking involved wouldn’t be new. It has taken years of agricultural policy to get us into this mess. Getting out of it is a question not of whether lawmaking also produces economic policy and jobs, but of what kind.The Green New Deal isn’t the only approach, of course, but its broad ambitions mark out the ground where future climate fights will happen. Because reshaping our environmental impact means reworking our economy, there will inevitably be competing visions about who deserves to benefit and what kind of economy we should build. Centrist proposals will concentrate on promoting investment in new technologies, with profits going, pharma-style, to private researchers and manufacturers.If Trumpist nationalism outgrows its climate denialism but survives to fight again, it will double down on supporting national energy industries and denying the ethical responsibilities of global interdependence by building border walls against climate refugees. To the left of the Green New Deal, there will be louder calls to nationalize fossil fuels in order to leave them in the ground. (A carbon tax would be compatible with any of these visions, depending on who paid it and how the revenues were spent.)Curiously, the idea that environmental policy could ever be separated from the larger economic order, or from fights over fairness, is recent, a product of an unusually technocratic period in American politics. Arguing for the Clean Air Act on Earth Day 1970, Senator Edmund Muskie, Democrat of Maine and the law’s lead drafter, insisted that “man’s environment” included “the shape of the communities in which he lives” and that “the only kind of society that has a chance” was “a society that will not tolerate slums for some and decent houses for others, rats for some and playgrounds for others, clean air for some and filth for others.”For Senator Muskie, environmentalism meant that no neighborhood or job should be toxic. In the three years that followed, the country adopted the most ambitious and effective environmental legislation in its history, including Mr. Muskie’s Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act and the Endangered Species Act. Mr. Muskie’s approach remains a model of visionary environmental lawmaking. Like much new radicalism, the Green New Deal is good sense rediscovered.Jedediah Britton-Purdy (@JedediahSPurdy) is a professor of law at Columbia and is the author, most recently, of “After Nature: A Politics for the Anthropocene.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa FriedmanWASHINGTON — The Senate on Thursday confirmed Andrew R. Wheeler to be the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, giving oversight of the nation’s air and water to a former coal lobbyist and seasoned Washington insider.The confirmation formalized a role Mr. Wheeler has held in an acting capacity since the summer when President Trump’s first administrator, Scott Pruitt, resigned amid multiple ethics inquiries. The vote, 52-47, went mostly along party lines and underscored partisan divisions over the Trump administration’s continued commitment to repealing environmental regulations under Mr. Wheeler. Senator Susan Collins of Maine was the only Republican to vote against Mr. Wheeler.“The policies he has supported as acting administrator are not in the best interest of our environment and public health, particularly given the threat of climate change to our nation,” Senator Collins said.Nearly eight months after taking over the chief role from Mr. Pruitt, who was known for his combative style, analysts said Mr. Wheeler had brought a change in demeanor to the agency but virtually no difference in policy direction from his predecessor.Want climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.Jonathan H. Adler, a professor at the Case Western Reserve University School of Law, characterized Mr. Wheeler’s soft-spoken style and willingness to listen to criticism as genuine. But, he said, “It’s not going to mean that his priorities suddenly go away or that he’s suddenly going to abandon the regulatory philosophy that the administration from the very top has embraced.”“This is an administration that would like to reduce the overall regulatory footprint of the federal government,” Mr. Adler said. Republicans said they have been delighted to discover Mr. Wheeler is as enthusiastic about repealing environmental regulations and promoting coal as Mr. Pruitt was, and are looking to him to cement Mr. Trump’s legacy as a warrior against what they see as regulatory overreach.“He’s been a very solid follow on to Scott Pruitt.” said Michael McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist. “He’s followed through in a fairly aggressive fashion on everything Scott started.” Mr. Wheeler has moved to dramatically weaken two of former President Obama’s signature climate change initiatives, cutting emissions from power plants and from automobiles, while also proposing to make new coal-fired power plants easier to approve. He also has also sought to unwind the legal justification for curbing toxic mercury emissions from power plants, limit federal protection of small waterways, and dismissed a panel of independent scientific advisers.Some of the most consequential climate rollbacks are expected to be finalized in the coming months. That will most likely touch off a barrage of lawsuits from Democratic-governed states and environmental activists who have vowed to fight the rollbacks.Mary D. Nichols, who leads California’s air quality agency, said she had experienced firsthand the dissonance between Mr. Wheeler’s demeanor and his actions.By spring of 2018, relations between the state and the Trump administration had hit a low point amid a feud over California’s right to set automobile emissions standards stricter than the ones set by the federal government. Mr. Pruitt had virtually no engagement with Ms. Nichols. At one point, she asked him on Twitter to “call me maybe?”So, about a week after Mr. Pruitt’s resignation, when Mr. Wheeler called her office at the California Air Resources Board, Ms. Nichols said she was encouraged.“He wanted to make sure I knew he was going to be more open and accessible than his predecessor was,” Ms. Nichols said. Nevertheless, negotiations continued to stagnate. “Everyone was polite, that was a welcomed change,” she said. “But there was no difference in policy.” The White House announced last week that the E.P.A. and the Department of Transportation had ended talks with California over its clean-air waiver. The move signaled that the administration is closer to finalizing its rule to roll back tailpipe emissions standards that were put in place under President Barack Obama and will quite likely try to revoke California’s ability to set its own pollution rules.“I have to say that I don’t find him materially different than Scott Pruitt in his policies or the mission that he has taken on,” Ms. Nichols said. “The only difference really is that he is more polished and more professional to deal with.” On climate change, Mr. Wheeler also has taken a calibrated tone that contrasts with his policies.Unlike Mr. Pruitt who went on television to say carbon dioxide is not a primary contributor to global warming and rising global temperatures might be good for humanity, Mr. Wheeler told a Senate confirmation panel in January that “climate change is real.” He rated his level of concern about climate change, on a scale of 1 to 10, at an eight or nine.But, two weeks later, he appointed John Christy, an atmospheric scientist at the University of Alabama, Huntsville, who has testified that the earth will benefit from more planet-warming emissions, to an influential E.P.A. scientific advisory board.And asked whether he intended to work with Congress to finalize a ban on chlorpyrifos — an insecticide associated with developmental delays and cognitive impairments in children that Mr. Pruitt, acting against the advice of the E.P.A.’s own chemical safety experts, chose not to remove from use — Mr. Wheeler assured lawmakers in a written statement that the agency was “committed to fully evaluating this pesticide using the best available science.”Yet the agency under Mr. Wheeler’s leadership had already challenged a decision by the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals ordering the E.P.A. to ban the pesticide. This month, the court ruled in favor of the challenge and ordered a new hearing in the case.E.P.A. officials did not respond to a request for comment on this article. Mr. Adler said that Mr. Wheeler’s experience in Washington has helped him avoid waving red flags in front of lawmakers. But ultimately, he said, Mr. Wheeler is committed to fulfilling the president’s agenda.“There is a tendency to assume if someone is reasonable they’re going to agree with you,” Mr. Adler said. “Wheeler has a very conservative view of environmental regulation and how it should be handled, and is very much in line with this administration’s overall regulatory philosophy.”Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Graham BowleyThe American Museum of Natural History says it is exploring its options after discovering that the honoree at a gala to which it rented space next month will be President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, whose environmental policies have come under fire.In statements Thursday and Friday, the museum responded to criticism that an institution dedicated to nature and science would serve as a podium to honor someone who has proposed opening up more of the Amazon rain forest to mining and agribusiness.The event is an annual gala honoring a Person of the Year Award organized by the Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce, a nonprofit that promotes business and cultural ties between the United States and Brazil.The museum said it had agreed to book the event this year before it learned who the nominee would be, and its remarks suggested it might be considering whether there is any way to back out of hosting the engagement.“The external, private event at which the current President of Brazil is to be honored was booked at the Museum before the honoree was secured,” the museum said in a tweet. “We are deeply concerned, and we are exploring our options.”In a statement Friday, the museum said the event “does not in any way reflect the Museum’s position that there is an urgent need to conserve the Amazon Rainforest, which has such profound implications for biological diversity, indigenous communities, climate change, and the future health of our planet.”The outcry over the event comes at a time of increasing sensitivities about what sort of oversight museums should demonstrate in regard to the people who serve on their boards, give them money or, as in this case, rent their space.Traditionally, museums have argued that they do not apply ideological litmus tests to their donors or trustees, a position of principle, but also one that enabled often cash-challenged nonprofit institutions to accept financing from the widest spectrum of individuals.The natural history museum cited the principle a few years ago in defending its decision to offer a board seat to Rebekah Mercer, who is an influential donor to the museum and also to groups that deny climate change.Some museums, however, have recently taken a different stance, in several cases, for example, saying they were reconsidering their connections to the Sackler family over the ties of some family members to the opioid crisis. And in New York, there have been protests at the Whitney Museum of American Art, where a vice chairman on its board, Warren Kanders, runs a company that manufactures tear gas that was used to repel migrants trying to cross into the United States from Mexico.The Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce could not be reached for comment. Michael R. Bloomberg, former mayor of New York, was one of the chamber’s honorees last year, and Bill Clinton has been an honoree in the past.The criticism toward this year’s honoree built quickly. Mayor Bill de Blasio entered the debate Friday, telling WNYC radio that he found the event at an institution that accepts city funding “really troubling.”“If you’re talking about a publicly supported institution and you’re talking about someone who’s doing something tangibly destructive, I’m uncomfortable with it, and I would certainly urge the museum not to allow him to be hosted there,” he said.Beka Economopoulos, who is the director of a traveling museum, said some staff members at the natural history museum had been organizing in opposition to the event involving President Bolsonaro.“What he stands for is antithetical to what the museum stands for,” she said. “When the museum offers its name and its space to this individual, it undermines the trust the public puts in this museum and in science itself.”AdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Also this week: We talk with the hosts of a podcast that’s equal parts comedy and climate.By John Schwartz, Lisa Friedman and Tik RootWelcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By John SchwartzHey there, everybody!Some news drove up just as we were writing to you today. Coral Davenport reports that the White House is planning to establish a commission that will advise President Trump on “how a changing climate could affect the security of the United States.” Is that a change of heart from a president who has denied the science of climate change?Perhaps not. A member of the panel will be William Happer, a Princeton physicist who asserts that carbon dioxide, a primary driver of global warming, is good for the planet. We’ve written before about how he was entangled in a sting operation by the environmental group Greenpeace.Coral had another story since our last newsletter: The Environmental Protection Agency announced it would start working on a long-awaited plan to set national drinking-water limits for two harmful chemicals, known as PFASs, that scientists have linked to cancer, low infant birth weight and other health issues.The agency said it would begin the work by the end of the year. To critics like Senator Tom Carper, Democrat of Delaware, that sounds like foot-dragging. “While E.P.A. acts with the utmost urgency to repeal regulations,” he said, “the agency ambles with complacency when it comes to taking real steps to protect the water we drink and the air we breathe.” Of course, we’ve written quite a bit about the administration’s regulatory rollbacks and their effects.Let’s get out of Washington and head to Sweden, where a young woman is skipping school to shame her government into doing more to fight climate change. If you missed it, take a look at Somini Sengupta’s profile of Greta Thunberg, the 16-year-old activist. It’s a fascinating piece that shows her wry, blunt views on climate inaction.“It’s sometimes annoying when people say, ‘Oh you children, you young people are the hope. You will save the world,’” Greta told Somini. “I think it would be helpful if you could help us just a little bit.”Finally, one of the first scientists to warn the world about climate change died on Monday. Wallace Broecker popularized the term “global warming,” and in 1975 published a paper whose title asked, “Climatic Change: Are We on the Brink of a Pronounced Global Warming?” I wrote the obituary for the man who was fond of saying, “The climate system is an angry beast and we are poking it with sticks.”By Lisa FriedmanIt may seem unusual for a former leader of a nation to team up with a comedian to bring a message about climate change to the masses. But that’s what Mary Robinson, a former president of Ireland, and Maeve Higgins, a stand-up comedian and writer from Ireland now living in New York, have been doing for the past year with their podcast about climate justice called “Mothers of Invention.”The two have reunited for a second season, which began Tuesday. “Mothers of Invention” attracted more than 70,000 subscribers in its first season, which focused on introducing listeners to the driving causes of rising global temperatures. This year the podcast takes a deeper look at people around the world, particularly women, who are influencing the climate debate. “Climate change is a man-made problem that requires a feminist solution” is the show’s tagline.Ms. Robinson, who also leads The Mary Robinson Foundation-Climate Justice, has worked for many years to draw attention to links between rising emissions and inequality. On the show, she tends to play the straight woman and sometimes good-natured scold to the naïve and wisecracking Ms. Higgins, who said she knew little about climate issues before working on the podcast.“It’s very Irish,” Ms. Higgins told me at a recent taping in New York. “It’s actually the way Irish people show affection, is what I tell myself. When Mary says something like, ‘And then we have Maeve over here, a pretty slow learner,’ I’m like, ‘She likes me!’”The unlikely pair became a team after Ms. Robinson, who recently published a book on climate justice, expressed a desire to produce a documentary. Her team suggested a podcast instead.“My immediate question was, what’s a podcast? I’m not that generation,” Ms. Robinson, 74, recalled.In many ways the early episodes follow Ms. Higgins’s learning curve on climate change, like when she takes listeners on a journey across her multiple conversations with customer service at Chase Bank in an effort to divest her $3,000 in savings from institutions that support fossil-fuel investments. “I hope I bring a curiosity and a much-needed levity,” Ms. Higgins told me.Ms. Robinson thinks she does. “People learn about climate change through Maeve’s questions and her sense of humor,” she said.Ms. Robinson said the podcast helped her appreciate the importance of humor in communicating serious issues like the threat of planetary destabilization. (Ms. Robinson is also a longtime, widely respected human rights campaigner, though she recently drew negative attention when she was accused of covering for Dubai’s mistreatment of a daughter of the ruling sheikh. She has said her assessment of the situation was “in good faith.”)The podcast features guests like Alexandria Villasenor, a 13-year-old who skips school on Fridays to protest for climate action in front of the United Nations, and Hindou Oumarou Ibrahim, an indigenous leader from a pastoralist community in Chad who runs an organization focused on human rights and environmental protection.So what’s a feminist approach to climate change? Ms. Robinson calls it a “progressive, equality-based solution.” But, she said, men are in fact allowed on the podcast — sometimes.By Tik RootWe’ve known for a while that many animal products have an outsize environmental footprint. But which ones have the most impact?It might not be news to you that the world’s beef production creates the most planet-warming emissions over all. But the next item on the list, according to one study, may be more surprising: dairy products.“So much of the discourse around environmental impact of food is around meat,” said Helen Harwatt, a policy fellow at the Animal Law & Policy Program at Harvard Law School, who published a study last year in the journal Climate Policy.She had expected pork or chicken to be second to beef. But by her calculations, the production of dairy products — including milk, cheese, ice cream and yogurt — contributes about 3.6 percent of global planet-warming emissions each year. Her research focused on how policies can encourage shifts to plant proteins from animal proteins.“It does really have a huge impact,” Ms. Harwatt said, though she acknowledged that “a wholesale shift might not be practical for everyone.” Rather, she suggested that people look for “low-hanging fruit or baby steps.”Alternative milks are chief among potential substitutes. From soy milk to oat milk; there’s no shortage of plant-based options. Cynthia Sass, a nutritionist, pointed people to “pea milk and yogurt, made from yellow split peas.”There are now a plethora of replacements for other common dairy products as well, including cheese and ice cream. And, if you want to get even more creative, Ms. Sass recommended experimenting with pulses, which refers to beans, lentils, peas and chickpeas. Chickpea flour, for example, can be used to make a creamy sauce. And hummus can replace a dairy-based dip at your next party.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times.An earlier version of this newsletter implied incorrectly that a study ranking animal products by their climate impact was based on emission intensity, an expression of the emissions generated per kilogram of food. In fact, the rankings were based on overall global emissions.The newsletter also misstated the global rankings of beef and dairy products in terms of emission intensity. While beef was ranked first and dairy products were ranked second in the study in terms of overall global emissions, the top-ranked animal products as measured by emission intensity are generally buffalo meat and beef. Dairy is much lower on the list. (Emission intensity for a given product can vary widely by producer.)In addition, because of an editing error, the earlier version also misstated the impact of dairy products in terms of global carbon dioxide emissions. While dairy is responsible for 3.6 percent of global CO₂-equivalent emissions (a measure that includes other planet-warming emissions like methane), it accounts for a far lower percentage of global CO₂ emissions, according to the study’s author.AdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Also this week: Costa Rica’s big green ambition, and the latest in geoengineering research.By Lisa Friedman, Henry Fountain and Eduardo GarciaWelcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By Lisa FriedmanHello! My colleague Somini Sengupta is just back from Costa Rica, where she reported on how the tiny Latin American country is trying to eliminate fossil fuels by midcentury to show that even small nations have a big part to play in tackling global warming. The main hurdle is the country’s transportation sector, which is Costa Rica’s biggest source of carbon pollution. Here in the United States, the Trump administration is leading a new push against federal climate and renewable energy policies. In a $4.75 trillion budget proposal released this week, the administration called for cuts across multiple agencies to programs aimed at reducing planet-warming emissions. Many of those are likely to be restored by Congress, but the budget battles will drag out for months.The administration is also working to relax rules on lighting efficiency, as my colleague Nadja Popovich reported in this terrific piece showing how the humble light bulb could lead a clean energy revolution.You may have heard a Republican talking point that Democrats have a secret plot to take away your hamburgers. Well, that’s not true. But as our reporter Kendra Pierre-Louis noted, the Green New Deal resolution proposed in the House and Senate does aim to address the role that agricultural emissions play in climate change, and that’s a complicated endeavor.The political feud over hamburgers has also raised questions about how far eliminating meat could go in aiding the planet. The answers, Kendra finds, are … complicated.For more on the Green New Deal, listen to my colleague Coral Davenport on our podcast “The Daily.” She says that younger generations are bringing new energy to the climate policy debate, but also that the resolution poses political challenges for Democrats.The Green New Deal may also be a rallying cry in some of the school strikes that students are planning for Friday to demand action on climate change. We will be following many of them as demonstrators take to the streets in the United States and throughout the world.And finally, we want to hear from you. Here on the Climate Desk, we’re always looking for stories about how climate change is affecting your community. Drop us a line!By Henry FountainLet’s talk about geoengineering, shall we? I’m referring to the spread-chemicals-in-the-upper-atmosphere approach to fighting climate change, which would lower temperatures as the tiny particles reflected more sunlight away from the earth.This form of geoengineering, known as solar radiation management, has its proponents, who argue that it could be a relatively quick and inexpensive fix for global warming. They say that the concept is at least worthy of experimentation to better understand it in case society deems it necessary amid a future climate calamity.But solar geoengineering has plenty of critics, and one of the main arguments against it is that it may have unintended consequences. Sure, these critics say, temperatures may be lowered worldwide, but the approach may have other, vastly unequal effects — drought in lands of plenty, perhaps, or fierce storms in areas that are normally untouched by extreme weather. That could lead to political instability, among other repercussions.A new study by researchers at Harvard, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and other institutions suggests that those fears, at least, might be put to rest. The research, published on Monday in Nature Climate Change, shows that a halfway approach — spreading enough chemicals to lower temperatures somewhat, but not to preindustrial levels — would leave no region worse off than any other when it comes to large storms and other impacts.David Keith, a Harvard physicist who is a prominent geoengineering researcher and one of the authors of the study, described the idea as “cutting off the peak” global warming that will occur later this century, and relying on steep cuts in greenhouse gas emissions to help avoid the worst of climate change.“Nobody ever really thought that it made sense to use solar geoengineering as a substitute for emissions cuts,” Dr. Keith said in an interview.Like all other geoengineering studies, this one was done through computer modeling (no outdoor experiments have been conducted yet, though Dr. Keith and others have proposed some).The simulations were somewhat simplified, but Dr. Keith said this was a good start. “We looked at a much more policy-relevant set of variables than before,” he said, including “water availability,” which combines precipitation and evaporation and has more bearing on agriculture than evaporation alone.At least one geoengineering skeptic remained unconvinced, however. Bill Hare, a physicist and chief executive of Climate Analytics, a nonprofit research and policy group, said that regardless of the study’s finding on regional impacts, it did not address other fundamental concerns about solar geoengineering — that it would do nothing about ocean acidification from carbon dioxide, for example, and that there could be “termination shock,” or a rapid rewarming, were it to be halted.“If we’re trying to prevent dangerous changes to the climate system then we really have to deal with the fundamental carbon dioxide problem,” Dr. Hare said.By Eduardo GarciaIn a bid to reduce the amount of plastic I waste, I challenged myself not to buy anything in plastic packaging for a week. This is how it went.Compulsive shopping is plastic packaging’s best friend, so, before I went to the store, I made a list: bread, fish, cereals, rice, cookies, avocados, arugula, coffee, milk and cheese.I found most of those items in the bulk and produce aisles and packed them in cloth and reused plastic bags that I brought with me. I’m lucky because the food co-op I shop at in Brooklyn has a great selection in those aisles. The same goes for some retailers like Whole Foods, but going plastic-free at a big-box store would have been more challenging.Regardless, most grocery stores are awash with plastics, and the co-op is no exception, so I had to use my imagination. To snack, I got bananas and cashews in bulk instead of potato chips and nachos. Most cheeses were wrapped in plastic, but I found a piece of waxed Cheddar — not my first choice, but it was pretty good.I usually buy everything I need at the co-op, but this time I had to broaden my horizons. The owner of a deli placed a fresh loaf of rye bread in a paper bag for me. And when I asked a fishmonger to put some smoked cod in my Tupperware to help me reduce my plastic waste, he said, “Yes, we’re totally up for that here.”To satisfy my sweet tooth, I got a piece of chocolate cake and an oatmeal cookie at the farmers’ market, in a paper bag.I didn’t need to get any toiletries last week, but buying bars of soap and shampoo, bamboo toothbrushes and single rolls of toilet paper would have helped. I’ve been told that finding things like sunscreen, painkillers, contact lenses and prescription drugs in plastic-free packaging can be challenging, if not impossible.I succeeded in slashing plastic waste for a week, but will I keep doing it? Sure. I’ve eaten a healthier diet as a result, it was fun to visit stores with personality, and it was not overly burdensome. But it would be more challenging for families shopping on a tighter budget and those who don’t have access to specialty stores or farmers’ markets.Will I be one of those people who reduce their plastic waste to zero? That’s a laudable goal, but I don’t have the willpower to abandon things like goat cheese, baked tofu and nachos forever.Celia Ristow, who says she has been trying to lead a “zero waste” lifestyle for about five years with “varying degrees of success,” told me that not being too strict can help in the long term.“What I’m after now is not to do it perfectly for a month or a year and burn out and move on,” she said, “but to do it imperfectly in a way that is flexible and fluid enough that I can do it for my whole life.”Do you have tips on avoiding plastic packaging or plastics in other parts of your life? Let us know at climateteam@nytimes.com (include your name and hometown). We’ll publish some of your suggestions soon.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times.AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Hillary RosnerHORIZON By Barry LopezBack in the mid-1980s, when Barry Lopez published his acclaimed best seller, “Arctic Dreams,” the perils facing the ecosystems, animals and peoples of the Far North stemmed mostly from nature — the basic hardships of existence in a rugged landscape. Signs of looming change were there, but apocalypse wasn’t skulking on the horizon like a rising Arctic sun. Oil exploration and mining were starting to boom, though, bringing an explosion of roads and heavy machinery. Local communities were feeling the impact of that “rude invasion.” Lopez fretted about the region’s future, but concluded that “in behaving respectfully toward all that the land contains, it is possible to imagine a stifling ignorance falling away from us.”Looking back across the decades, you want to scream to the world to do things differently: Stop dismantling ecosystems, stop burning fossil fuels, start cooperating before everything falls apart. Today, as we watch the cascading impacts of industrial development and climate change transform the Arctic and many other parts of the globe, it’s increasingly possible to imagine the “stifling ignorance” not as a distant memory but as our epitaph.With a very real environmental and existential crisis at hand, Lopez takes us back to the Arctic, as well as to other far-flung places where he has spent time over the years — searching both memory and meticulously recorded field notes to reconstruct his experiences, mining their accumulated wisdom, seeking glimmers of hope. “Horizon” unfolds over several decades, and many thousands of miles, in six main locations: the Oregon coast, the Canadian Arctic, the Galápagos, Kenya, Australia, the Antarctic. The book is autobiographical but not an autobiography — except to the extent that Lopez’s life of exploration has come to define him. It is his response to his own question: “Having seen so many parts of the world, what had I learned about human menace, human triumph and human failure?”The answer fills 500 pages that feel at once like a reverie and an urgent appeal. “Horizon” is beautiful and brutal, uplifting and bleak, a story of the universal human condition set in some of the most distinctive places on earth. “We are the darkness,” Lopez writes, “as we are, too, the light.”Now in his 70s, a grandfather, and facing down his own mortality (he has spoken publicly about coping with advanced prostate cancer), Lopez worries deeply about the world he is leaving behind. But he also sees eternal possibility in the power of telling stories, about the world and about ourselves. With “Horizon,” Lopez has mapped the “enduring threads” of his own journeys, “at a time in our cultural and biological history when it has become an attractive option to lose faith in the meaning of our lives. At a time when many see little more on the horizon but the suggestion of a dark future.”Lopez declines to provide specific dates for the travels he chronicles, except to place most of the book’s trips roughly in the period from the late 1980s through the early 2000s. It’s just long enough ago to feel vaguely quaint: no cellphones, only the earliest stirring of a GPS.Camped in a logging clear-cut above Cape Foulweather, Ore., sometime in the mid-1990s, Lopez reflects on the life of James Cook, the 18th-century British explorer whose success in filling in gaps on the world’s maps enabled us “to picture the entire planet, the whole of it at once.” A fascination with Cook (and other explorers who populate the book) spurs Lopez, over the years, to follow some of Cook’s sea routes and visit exact points where he disembarked. Often Lopez is struck by the differences between what Cook described and present conditions. On Cape Foulweather, he finds denuded slopes, vanished biodiversity, absent native Alsea people, a slew of invasive plants — not to mention the appearance of a cellphone tower protruding from a mountaintop.But Lopez also cautions against embracing easy notions about ecological, or cultural, purity. Ecosystems are always in flux. A blanket contempt for invasive species carries an uncomfortable whiff of anti-immigrant sentiment. One of the strongest messages Lopez delivers in “Horizon” is that without learning to embrace diversity, without listening to the tales told by cultures other than our own, we risk obliteration. Instead of simply lamenting Cape Foulweather’s “ghosted landscape,” he tries to use it as a point of departure for imagining what might come next.Still, wherever Lopez goes, he is never far from a disquisition on humanity’s merciless ways. Rising from his bed one night in the tropical heat of Isla Santa Cruz, in the Galápagos, he walks alone (a frequent habit that makes for some of the book’s best bits) to the beach and watches a group of brown pelicans asleep on the bay. The birds’ vulnerability — “oblivious just now to all that is hidden and potentially threatening in the lightless world we share” — leads his train of thought to Spanish conquistadores releasing vicious dogs on Indians, and from there to the European bankers who underwrote the slave trade in West Africa, and on to the present horrors of Boko Haram. It’s all, ultimately, in the service of pondering the roots of barbarism, and how we ignore the barbarism unfolding in our own society at our peril.[ Read our round-up of recent books about climate change. ]Strangely, though, these relentless reminders of egregious acts don’t diminish the appeal of seeing the world through Lopez’s eyes. His reverence for exploring every corner of the world, even the sites of its most shameful histories, is infectious. Rarely does Lopez decline an offer of adventure, no matter how potentially grueling the trip might be. Traveling, he writes, “turns the mind toward a consideration of context and releases it from the dictatorship of absolute truths about humanity. It helps one understand that all people do not want to be on the same road.”Lopez’s journeys often start in ways that make you shake your head. (More than a few trips begin with a banal sentence like: “In the austral fall of 1987 I was traveling through Namibia with a few people.” You know, as one does.) One night he reads a paper in the scientific journal Nature about the discovery of some 4.27-billion-year-old zircon crystals in remote Western Australia. He immediately emails the researchers about visiting the field site — because he just happens to be headed to Perth soon, “en route from Zimbabwe to the Northern Territory.”The scientists initially ignore his request. But he persists, and several years later he’s finally on his way to the Jack Hills. He flies from the United States to Sydney, and then goes by train to Perth, persuading the engineers to let him ride in the locomotive. One day, crossing the vast Nullarbor Plain, “the train suddenly ran into a wall of water,” a drenching rainstorm. When the weather clears, a double rainbow appears. And then a mob of kangaroos arrives, over a hundred of them, leaping across the plain. “The sight of it was so exhilarating the three of us in the cab nodded an affirmation to one another. Whatever was wild and lyrical in the timeless world, we were in the middle of it now.”Lopez proceeds in a rented four-wheel drive to a sheep-ranching outpost where a geologist has arranged lodging, 120 miles from the nearest town “on an unsigned dirt track.” When he arrives, the rancher and his daughter have “a meat pie in the oven, and he wanted to know whether I took milk with my tea.” One day, as Lopez is heading out to the geology site, the rancher offers him a rifle and asks if he’d mind shooting any wild goats he encounters. Lopez declines. But through evening chats on the veranda, the two men form a bond; the rancher ultimately visits Lopez at home in Oregon. This knack for making friends in the most unlikely places resonates long after you turn the last page. “Are we not bound,” he asks, “to learn how to speak with each other?”Had we mastered that skill 30-odd years ago, would we be where we find ourselves today, grappling with violent xenophobia while forests incinerate, oceans rise and acidify, magnificent organisms everywhere fade away? Where will we be three decades on, if we don’t take heed? There is still time, though not as much as there once was, to shape what’s coming.Hillary Rosner is a Ted Scripps fellow in environmental journalism at the University of Colorado.HORIZON By Barry Lopez 572 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $30.AdvertisementSupported byWe asked readers whom they would bring to President Trump’s address on Tuesday. By Lela MooreThe State of the Union address is an elaborate form of political gamesmanship. Members of Congress trot out guests who will help them make a point, good or bad, about the president’s agenda, and vice versa.When we asked readers whom they would invite to the address on Tuesday, we heard from many liberals who described their fantasies of inviting guests to rebuke President Trump. Some people came up repeatedly: Christine Blasey Ford, Colin Kaepernick and immigrants whose families were separated at the border. We also heard from some who chose nonpartisan guests — relatives, personal heroes and co-workers. Here are some of their answers, which have been condensed and edited for clarity.Fred Rogers might have been capable of showing partisan zealots how to listen and get along with one another.— David Hill, Rochester, N.Y. To honor those who serve this country by risking their lives for us.— David B. Nummey, Floral Park, N.Y. My granddaughter Katt Baldwin Greenberg, 29. Katt has had Type 1 diabetes since birth. In that time, the price of insulin, which Type 1 diabetics must take every day to stay alive, has tripled. People with Type 1 diabetes are dying in this country because they cannot afford their life-sustaining medicine.— Julie Goodwin, TucsonColin Kaepernick, because we need to shine a spotlight on racial inequality in America. It can’t be brushed under the shiny hood of so-called respect for the flag. Real respect means striving for the ideal of true equality.— Sophia Naz, Glen Ellen, Calif. Colin Kaepernick is an unwavering voice for racial justice. He has been a phenomenal example of putting principles before personal gain. And I think it would make a lot of the G.O.P. very uncomfortable.— Jennifer Armstrong, Saratoga Springs, N.Y. I would invite the fiancée of Jamal Khashoggi to point directly to the Trump administration’s refusal to hold Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, responsible for Khashoggi’s murder.— William Johnston, Higganum, Conn. I would hold up a massive picture of Jamal Khashoggi, front and center, to show the president how he has failed and continues to fail America and American citizens.— Peggy White, Ypsilanti, Mich. A. G. Sulzberger! Support the free press and the next generation. — Elizabeth Greer, SeattleCardi B was a superstar during the government shutdown with her viral tweets and videos. She’s passionate about American politics, specifically presidential history. Plus she is a badass who would bring some spunk to the usually boring political affair!— Vince Cefali, ChicagoAn undocumented immigrant to the United States from El Salvador or Guatemala who has been the victim of gang violence, to demonstrate the humanity of these people and how the United States should be a land of refuge.— Joe Waks, Bayonne, N.J.A baby separated from her or his parents at the border, to remind everyone of that cruelty, and that reunification is not happening quickly.— Sharon M. Anderson, Great Falls, Mont. Jussie Smollett because he was singled out as a victim in a hate crime combining hatred of his skin color with hatred of his sexual orientation. I’d like to draw attention to the unacceptable hatred that is seething in this country.— Jim Arnold, Los AngelesI would invite Jussie Smollett as a concrete, human reminder that racism and homophobia are alive and well in our country and have violent consequences for L.G.T.B.Q. people of color. Feeling safe on the streets should not be a privilege. It should be a right, one that is defended vehemently by the president at all times for all people.— Trish Vawter, Portland, Ore.Ruth Etzel, the former director of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Children’s Health Protection and a world-renowned expert on environmental health, whom the Trump administration placed on administrative leave with pay. Dr. Etzel’s team was getting ready to release new, stricter lead guidelines to protect children. Children will continue to suffer.— Kathy King, Stillwater, Minn. I would invite one of the people who have been unjustly placed in prison for decades and have had their verdicts overturned because of the work of the Equal Justice Initiative, so they could see, face-to-face, the people who appoint federal judges and who have sworn to work for justice in our country.— Barbara Ann Brothers, Staunton, Va. I would invite Christine Blasey Ford because she had great courage, and I know she was telling the truth. She stood up to power and still does. She is a true hero.— Christine Williams, San Jose, Calif. I cannot fathom the strength it takes to tell the entire world about something as deeply personal as sexual assault. She gave a voice to people everywhere who have faced abuse at the hands of those in power, and because of that she is an American hero.— Emerson Ellis, Austin, Tex. David Hogg or Emma González (both survivors of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., in February 2018). It would be a positive message by young people who are risking their lives and reputations by going public, and doing something about pervasive gun violence in America.— Don Reeck, Whitmore Lake, Mich.The kids from the Parkland high school shooting. They moved the country to think about weapons sales.— Ana Tomassini, ChileLara Takenaga contributed reporting.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressALBANY, N.Y. — The Latest on the Environmental Protection Agency's decision not to compel General Electric to restart dredging in the Hudson River (all times local):1:30 p.m.Gov. Andrew Cuomo says the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has failed to hold General Electric accountable for cleaning up the Hudson River.The EPA on Thursday declined to compel Boston-based GE to restart dredging in the Hudson River. The federal agency issued a certificate to GE that it completed its remedial action under the federal Superfund program.Cuomo and fellow Democrat Attorney General Letitia James say New York state intends to sue the EPA over its decision. They claim levels of the contaminant PCB remain unacceptably high in the riverbed and in fish.EPA Regional Administrator Peter Lopez stressed that GE can still be compelled in the coming decades to do more work, including additional dredging.Cuomo says the Trump Administration is putting corporations' interests ahead of public health and the environment.___10:25 a.m.The Environmental Protection Agency has declined to compel General Electric to restart dredging in the Hudson River, despite calls from New York officials and environmentalists.EPA Regional Administrator Peter Lopez said Thursday more time and testing are needed to fully assess GE's $1.7 billion Hudson River cleanup. The federal agency issued a certificate to Boston-based GE that it completed its remedial action under the Superfund cleanup.But Lopez said the certificate does not leave Boston-based GE "off the hook" for more work if the EPA later concludes additional cleanup is needed.Critics had urged the EPA to withhold the certificate, saying river PCB levels remain too high.GE completed removal of 2.75 million cubic yards (2.1 million cubic meters) of PCB-contaminated river sediment north of Albany in 2015.___9:20 a.m.The Environmental Protection Agency says more time is needed to assess General Electric's $1.7 billion Hudson River cleanup, and it's not calling for more dredging at this time.The federal agency said on Thursday it issued a certificate to Boston-based GE that it completed its remedial action under the Superfund cleanup. But the agency said more monitoring of the river and the fish is needed to judge the cleanup's effectiveness.Many New York officials and environmentalists had urged the EPA to withhold the certificate, saying river PCB levels remain too high.GE completed removal of 2.75 million cubic yards (2.1 million cubic meters) of PCB-contaminated river sediment north of Albany in 2015.The EPA says GE could potentially be compelled to conduct additional dredging if future river conditions warrant.___1 a.m.The Environmental Protection Agency is poised to make an announcement on General Electric's $1.7 billion Hudson River cleanup.Regional Administrator Pete Lopez is slated to discuss the Superfund cleanup with reporters Thursday morning. Last week, New York's top environmental official said the federal government was about to announce Boston-based GE met its cleanup goal, despite opposition from environmentalists and state officials.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHICO, Calif. — With nearly 40 million people living in California and development spreading into once-wild regions, some of the state's best tools toward preventing wildfires can't be widely used.Still, there is growing agreement that the state must step up its use of forest management through prescribed burns and vegetation removal in an attempt to lessen the impact of wildfires .In March, Gov. Gavin Newsom declared a state of emergency on wildfires, designed to expedite forest-thinning projects and other programs. In May 2018, former Gov. Jerry Brown called for doubling the amount of forest land treated each year in California by 2023. The state significantly increased the money it was spending on those efforts, with the Legislature earmarking $1 billion over five years in funds generated by the state's carbon trading program. The Trump administration has also vowed to manage forests more aggressively.Cal Fire and the state Board of Forestry estimate 23 million acres in the state's responsibility area could benefit from fuel reduction. And those treatments aren't one-time efforts: they must be repeated every few years to be effective.Among the biggest complications in forest management are California's strict environmental regulations.Forest treatment projects must obtain approvals under the California Environmental Quality Act. Butte County Fire Safe Council Executive Director Calli-Jane DeAnda said the environmental review process typically uses up 10 to 15 percent of grant funds local fire agencies receive for forest management projects. The reviews can take years.The state has been working since 2010 on an EIR that would cover all vegetation treatments in California under one overarching environmental document. It would identify environmentally sound processes for various natural landscapes. Then, if a project were proposed that met the guidelines for its landscape, it could be approved through a "checklist scenario," according to Board of Forestry Executive Director Matt Dias.Some projects wouldn't fit the template, he said, and would require more review, but the idea would be to get projects approved and moving forward in a matter of weeks instead of years. A goal has been set to complete the document by the end of the year.Some environmental groups say state officials are pursuing the wrong path altogether.Rick Halsey of the California Chaparral Institute said Cal Fire should place more focus on making communities more fire resistant, not on clearing vegetation."We have a home ignition problem," he said, "not a vegetation control problem."He said it makes more sense to spend some of the vegetation control dollars on fireproofing measures like ember-resistant vents and fire resistant rooftops."We've got to stop looking in different directions than where people are, and frankly Cal Fire is not doing a good job at that," he said. "The fundamental problem is that they're a vegetation management agency ... they're not into the building thing. They have to look at the whole picture."AdvertisementSupported byOr is that question beside the point in the Trump era?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.In the current election cycle, bets on moderation have few takers. Leading Democratic candidates are supporting bold progressive policy initiatives that are supported by liberal primary voters but may prove to be a tough sell to the general electorate. President Trump and his Republican allies will certainly try to use these initiatives against their Democratic rivals. They have in fact already begun to do so.A number of Democratic presidential candidates, for example, are calling for the elimination of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency and they have declared themselves in favor of such multibillion dollar programs as Medicare for all and a Green New Deal. Growing numbers are supportive of reparations to compensate black Americans for the costs of slavery and segregation.Why are these candidates willing to buck political tradition and heighten the risk of defeat on Nov. 3, 2020?Here is one answer, from Julie Wronski, a political scientist at the University of Mississippi:Democrats contain much more heterogeneity across social groups than the more homogeneous white, Christian conservative Republican Party. To the extent the Democratic Party needs to entice and accommodate African-Americans, Latinos, environmentalists, etc. as voters, their candidates need to start embracing boutique policies for these groups that may not align with a general election “median voter” model of espousing moderate national policies.The issue of reparations illuminates the heterogeneity of the Democratic electorate. There are two surveys on reparations, a May 2016 Marist Poll and a July 2018 poll by the liberal group Data for Progress. Both produced similar results.The Marist survey found overwhelming opposition among whites in response to the question As a way to make up for the harm caused by slavery and other forms of racial discrimination, do you think the United States should or should not pay reparations, that is, should or should not pay money to African-Americans who are descendants of slaves?Whites were opposed 81-15. Latinos were split, with 46 percent in support and 47 percent opposed. African-American voters support reparations, 58-35.The Data for Progress survey found sharp partisan divisions on the issue of reparations. Democrats supported reparations across the board: whites 37.8 to 30.5 percent; blacks 58.5 to 15.0 percent; Hispanics, 49.9 to 18.3 percent. Independents were opposed, 41.0 to 22.8 percent. Republicans were decisively in opposition, 77.1 to 8.9 percent.Among all voters, opposition to reparations was nearly twice as large as support, 47.1 to 26.4 percent.For the Democrats running for president, African-American backing is crucial both in the primaries and in the general election.Nationally, black voters in 2016 cast about one of every four ballots in Democratic primaries. In four states, African-Americans cast the majority of votes: 71 percent in Mississippi, 61 percent in South Carolina, 54 percent in Alabama and 51 percent in Georgia.Let’s look at another progressive initiative. In August 2018, AP-NORC asked voters if they support or oppose “abolishing the Immigration and Customs Enforcement, known as ICE?” 41 percent opposed abolition and 24 percent supported it.Medicare for all and the Green New Deal pose a subtler dilemma for Democratic candidates. In the abstract, voters are supportive; the problems arise when the same voters are told key details, including costs.The best example of this is Medicare for all. In March, a Kaiser Family Foundation poll found that a majority supported “a national health plan or Medicare-for-all plan,” 56-39, but support vacillates in both directions depending on how the program is portrayed.If, for example, Democrats posit that Medicare for all would eliminate health care premiums and reduce out of pocket costs, support rises to 67 percent with 30 percent opposed.Conversely, if Republicans succeed in portraying the program as leading to delays in getting medical treatment, or to the elimination of current private coverage, or to higher taxes, support collapses to the mid-20s and mid-30s, with opposition shooting up to the 60 to 70 percent range.Bold progressive stands may be risky in general elections, but recent research suggests that policy radicalism pays off in primaries.In a forthcoming paper, “Policy Over Party: Comparing the effects of candidate ideology and party on affective polarization,” Yphtach Lelkes, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania, reports that voters in primary elections prefer candidates who are willing to take more extreme positions.“Partisans are reacting most favorably toward ideological extremists,” Lelkes wrote in an email:In fact, moderates are punished for the policies. Extreme politicians in the vein of Mike Lee and Elizabeth Warren, are rated roughly 20-25 points higher (on a 0 to 100 scale) by party identifiers than ideologically moderate politicians in the vein of Susan Collins and Joe Manchin. These effects are even larger among ideologically extreme respondents — the kind that vote in primary elections.Lelkes conducted experiments that asked participants to rate a number of hypothetical candidates, including a moderate Democrat, an “ideologically extreme” liberal Democrat, a moderate Republican and an “ideologically extreme” conservative Republican.He found that the most ideologically committed voters — who are disproportionately represented in primaries and caucuses — strongly preferred more extreme candidates:The impact of policy cues was particularly strong among respondents who themselves held strong policy positions. If a respondent was told that candidate held extreme in-party views, ideologically extreme respondents registered feeling thermometer ratings 35.89 points warmer than ideologically neutral respondents.Lelkes’s conclusion?If we are to decrease affective polarization in the United States, we need politicians that are politically moderate. Unfortunately, voters prefer politicians of their own party that are politically extreme. This incentivizes extreme political candidates, which will only exacerbate current tensions.There are dangers for both parties is these trends, Lelkes argues, citing a 2015 study of House elections, “What Happens When Extremists Win Primaries?” by Andrew Hall, a political scientist at Stanford.Hall found that when a more extreme candidate beats a moderate in the primarythe party’s general-election vote share decreases on average by approximately 9—13 percentage points, and the probability that the party wins the seat decreases by 35—54 percentage points.Gallup data shows the steady ascendance within Democratic ranks of self-identified ideological liberals and a parallel decline in the share of Democrats who say they are moderate or conservative. From 1973 to 2018, as I have noted before, the percentage of Democrats who say they are liberal has grown from 25 to 51 percent, while the share of moderates has fallen from 48 to 31 percent, and the share of conservatives has dropped from 25 to 13 percent.A 2014 Pew study showed a steady process of ideological consolidation among both Republicans and Democrats since 1994, although consolidation accelerated most rapidly on the left:The share of Democrats who are liberal on all or most value dimensions has nearly doubled from just 30 percent in 1994 to 56 percent today. The share who are consistently liberal has quadrupled from just 5 percent to 23 percent over the past 20 years.In a reflection of their importance in primaries, “consistently liberal” Democrats turned out in elections at a 70 percent rate, compared with 47 percent for “mostly liberal” Democrats and 41 percent for Democrats with “mixed views,” according to Pew data.These and other trends, according to Lee Drutman, a senior fellow at the liberal New America think tank, represent the changing the mind-set of the Democratic electorate. In an email, Drutman wrote:Two related dynamics are operative. One, Democratic voters have moved to the left in response to Trump, and are eager for policies that signal transformative change, not just incrementalism. There is no return to normalcy, because the past is now seen as more flawed.This dynamic has intensified because the most engaged Democrats, Drutman writes,have bought into an argument that Hillary Clinton lost in 2016 because she was too incrementalist, and had she gone a little bolder and promised something more exciting than her competence and experience, she might have won.The second dynamic, Drutman continued, is thatin a crowded field, candidates are seeking to distinguish themselves with grass-roots energy. A very effective way of generating grass-roots energy is attaching to transformative changes these policies signal. Incrementalism and moderation doesn’t generate much excitement among the activists or in coverage from journalists who are responsible for driving candidate buzz in these early stages.In a similar analysis, John Sides, a political scientist at George Washington University, argues thatOn race and immigration in particular, I think Trump is pushing Democrats to the left. To be clear, Hillary Clinton was already to Obama’s left even in 2016. But I think Trump’s rhetoric and agenda has made conservative positions on race and immigration even more anathema to Democrats.Sides also pointed out that the incentives for Democratic candidates have shifted:It used to be the case that Democratic candidates had to moderate on racial issues to maintain a Democratic coalition that included both blacks and some racially conservative whites. But the Democratic coalition has changed: it is increasingly made up of not only nonwhites but whites who espouse racially liberal attitudes.In an argument elaborating on a point made by Drutman, Edward Carmines, a political scientist at Indiana University, made the case that the 2016 defeat of Hillary Clinton fostered the shift to the left:If a moderate policy agenda cannot guarantee electoral victory why downplay your leftward policy orientations in the unlikely event that it will jeopardize your electoral success?Carmines added:Trump’s success has reinforced this perspective. He won with a very right-wing policy agenda. Perhaps a left-wing set of proposals can lead Democrats to similar success.Carmines believes that “both of these premises are mistaken and could very well lead Democrats to electoral defeat when victory is within sight.”Leonie Huddy, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, argues that the liberal tilt of the Democratic candidates is, in fact, a rational political strategy. “There is real change afoot with the most recent generations,” she wrote, citing a Pew study released in January:Young Republicans are especially different from older Republicans and the Democratic Party is likely to regard such findings as an invitation to poach more liberal young Republicans.Strong partisans, however, Huddy writes, “are unlikely to defect from the party in 2020 regardless of its issue agenda,” and political independentsare younger, on average, than partisans. Appealing to young voters thus makes political sense when it comes to the general 2020 presidential election.Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, has a somewhat different take on the changing character of the Democratic electorate and the party’s presidential candidates.The candidates, Jacobson wrote by email, “are playing to their activist base whose enthusiasm helped produce their House victory in 2018.”He warned, however, that “leaning left does carry risks; there are not enough liberals (or progressives, if you prefer) to form a majority nationally or in the Electoral College.”In contemporary presidential campaigns, according to Jacobson,the tricky thing is that in an era of extremely high party line voting, turnout becomes enormously important. Trump has proven to be a great mobilizer of Democrats, but they still have to consider how enthusiastic ordinary Democrats will be about their nominee.Trump, Jacobson noted, willtry to mobilize his base by ranting about “socialism” and of course some potential Democratic candidates will be more vulnerable to that charge than others.The strategic choices facing prospective Democratic nominees are, in the view of Lynn Vavreck, a political scientist at U.C.L.A., even more complex and subtle than those described by Jacobson.Taking very liberal stands on contested issues, she wrote me,might not pose “significant risks” if you think your minimum winning coalition of voters is made up of people who either share your preferences on these things, or for whom these policies are not pivotal in their vote decision.She elaborated:There are people for whom these issues are important, but for whom there’s no position a Democrat could take that would make them decide not to vote for that Democrat. There are other people, presumably, for whom these issues are so important and their preferences so intense, that any Democrat who takes a position far from their own is a Democrat for whom they won’t vote. It depends which type of people you think are in your winning coalition as to whether you stake out positions on these things.Matthew Nisbet, a professor of communication, public policy and urban affairs at Northeastern and editor in chief of the journal Environmental Communication, addressed only the support for a Green New Deal by some Democratic candidates. His view is pessimistic.In an email, he wrote:The Green New Deal has done damage to the Democratic Party’s chances heading into the 2020 elections, while hurting efforts to build momentum on behalf of climate and energy policy options capable of passing during an era of enduring divided government.In an article in the spring edition of Issues in Science and Technology, Nisbet contends that the goal of Green New Dealersis not to broker cross-alliances between the center-right, center-left, and left wing, drawing on the best ideas that those factions can offer, but rather to build progressive power.In an interesting development, the momentum behind the more radical Democratic agenda has turned both Barack Obama and Nancy Pelosi into defenders of the party’s old guard.Pelosi, who has been trying with mixed success to tamp down the left wing of the House Democratic caucus, recently described her views on Medicare for all in an interview with The Washington Post.At first she said, “I’m agnostic. Show me how you think you can get there.” But then she cautioned:So we’ll have hearings, again, let’s see what it is. Right now it’s a $30 trillion price tag. What do people get for that in terms of care, and what do they pay for that along the way?Implicit in her comment is the belief that $30 trillion is not acceptable to the American public.Obama, speaking at a town hall in Germany earlier this month, warned of the dangers of uncompromising ideology for the progressive wing of his party:One of the things I do worry about sometimes among progressives in the United States — maybe it’s true here as well — is a certain kind of rigidity where we say, ‘Uh, I’m sorry, this is how it’s going to be,’ and then we start sometimes creating what’s called a ‘circular firing squad,’ where you start shooting at your allies because one of them has strayed from purity on the issues. And when that happens, typically the overall effort and movement weakens.For the moment, both Obama and Pelosi are having minimal influence as far as the leftward thrust of the Democratic presidential nomination goes.Three years ago, Trump threw out conventional wisdom and went on to win the nomination and the presidency. Maybe, this time around, Democrats can gamble successfully on a similar strategy and win. Or maybe not. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Eager to jump-start the stalled Keystone XL oil pipeline and other energy projects, President Donald Trump has acted to assert executive power over pipelines and such infrastructure.He issued a new permit for Keystone XL and insisted this exercise of presidential authority was not subject to judicial review. Then he signed an executive order clarifying that the president alone has the power to grant permits for cross-border projects such as pipelines. A separate order makes it harder for states to block pipelines and other energy projects on the basis of environmental concerns.Taken together, the actions amount to a broad assertion of power that reverses more than 50 years of precedent that delegated decision-making on energy projects to individual agencies.Trump has shown a willingness to override his own agencies to accomplish his aims. His actions, if upheld by the courts, could consolidate power over energy projects at the White House, increasing the influence of the president's political advisers and potentially cutting out experts and career officials throughout the government."Too often badly needed energy infrastructure is being held back by special interest groups, entrenched bureaucracies and radical activists," Trump said Wednesday before signing the executive orders at an event in Texas.Pipeline opponents say Trump acted illegally. They have asked a federal court to block the new Keystone permit, arguing that it is an effort to get around an earlier court ruling.But one legal expert said Trump's approach might succeed."He has now created a whole new decision-making structure" for cross-border pipelines, said Richard Pierce, a law professor at George Washington University.If the courts follow a 1992 Supreme Court ruling, they may find that action taken by the State Department in approving or rejecting the pipeline "is nonreviewable, because it doesn't qualify as final agency action," Pierce said. Further, Trump's decision would not be subject to review because of a separate law that declares the president is not an agency and therefore is not bound by rules that apply to agency actions."That's a very clever approach that might well work," Pierce said.Trump's actions are "typical of this presidency," said Holly Doremus, an environmental law professor at the University of California, Berkeley. She said Trump frequently seeks to stretch the limits of his power, and she cited Trump's declaration of an emergency that he says allows him to shift more money to construction of a promised wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.In the case of Keystone, Trump appears to be arguing that the new presidential permit, issued March 29, gets around restrictions under the National Environmental Policy Act or other laws, because the statutes apply to executive-branch agencies but not to the president, Doremus said."If the president is the only discretionary decision maker, NEPA simply does not apply," she said.While Trump's theory is plausible, it is unclear who is the ultimate decision-maker on Keystone XL, Doremus said. The pipeline would ship crude oil from the tar sands of western Canada to U.S. refineries along the Gulf of Mexico.Both a 2015 rejection of the project by the Obama administration and a 2017 approval by Trump were issued by the State Department under terms of a 2004 executive order that delegated presidential authority for cross-border projects to that agency.Trump's executive order revokes the 2004 order, issued by President George W. Bush. Bush's action extended an executive order first issued by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1968."It's surprising that the president would come in and single-handedly try to circumvent 50 years of precedent for these types of projects by just issuing a permit himself," said Doug Hayes, a Sierra Club attorney who has sued to block the Keystone project in court.In November, U.S. District Judge Brian Morris in Montana ruled that the Trump administration did not fully consider potential oil spills and other impacts when it approved the pipeline in 2017. Morris ordered a new environmental review of the pipeline.The White House said the new permit issued by Trump "dispels any uncertainty" about the long-delayed project, which was first proposed a decade ago by Calgary-based TransCanada.Trump's move on Keystone XL reinforces the idea that "the presidential permit is indeed an exercise of presidential authority that is not subject to judicial review," according to the White House.Under the new order, federal officials still would conduct environmental reviews of the project, but they would be carried out by agencies other than the State Department, the White House said.TransCanada spokesman Matthew John said the administration's action "clearly demonstrates to the courts that the permit is (the) product of presidential decision-making and should not be subject to additional environmental review."Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond, said it was "strange" that Trump issued the executive order after granting the new permit."The White House is making the argument supposedly that he has untrammeled authority and doesn't have to obey the laws of Congress" in approving a cross-border pipeline, Tobias said. "I'm dubious and I think a number of other people are, too."Kathryn Watts, a law professor at the University of Washington, said it's unclear what happens next. Trump's permit wades into "uncharted, unsettled" legal territory, she said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will unveil a proposal to speed state-level permitting decisions for energy infrastructure projects soon, the agency’s chief told Reuters on Thursday, blasting states that have blocked coal terminals and gas pipelines on environmental grounds.President Donald Trump is seeking to boost domestic fossil fuels production over the objections of Democrats and environmentalists concerned about pollution and climate change. On Wednesday he issued a pair of executive orders targeting the power of states to delay energy projects."We started working on it in advance, so we hope to have something out soon," EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in an interview. He was unable to provide a precise timeline.Based on Trump’s orders, Wheeler's EPA has been tasked with clarifying a section of the U.S. Clean Water Act that has allowed states like New York and Washington to delay projects in recent years.New York has used the section to delay pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England, for example, and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals that would open the Asian market for struggling coal companies in Wyoming and other landlocked western states."They are trying to make international environmental policy," Wheeler said of Washington state, whose governor, Democrat Jay Inslee, is running for president on a climate change-focused platform. "They’re trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used."Wheeler said New York, which amid strong public pressure denied a clean water act permit for construction of a natural gas pipeline to New England, is forcing that region "to use Russian-produced natural gas.""We are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner. If the states that are blocking the pipelines were truly concerned about the environment, they would look to where the natural gas would be coming from... I think it’s very short-sighted," he said.Wheeler said the EPA would not prevent a state from vetoing a project, but would clarify the parameters they should be able to consider, and the length of time they have to do so.He also said that California is playing politics in its fight with the EPA to preserve its more stringent vehicle emission standards as the national standard. CLIMATE: NOT A PRIORITYWheeler said he believes climate change is a problem, but that it had been overblown by former President Barack Obama's administration - at the expense of other bigger issues like water quality."Yes, climate is an issue and we are working to address it, but I think water is a bigger issue," he said. Wheeler dismissed the findings of a report released earlier this week by EPA scientists in the journal Nature Climate Change that detailed the scale and urgency of climate change. He said while he encouraged EPA scientists to carry out and publish research, he stressed the recent paper "did not reflect EPA policy."Environmental groups say the EPA's replacement of an Obama-era rule limiting carbon emissions from power plants would likely lead to increased emissions by allowing older, more polluting coal plants to operate longer. Asked whether the replacement - the Affordable Clean Energy rule, which gives states responsibility for regulating emissions - is stringent enough, Wheeler said it adheres to the parameters of federal law."I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and one that will be held up in court," he said.Several Democrats challenging Trump in the 2020 election have made climate change a top-tier issue, embracing aggressive policy platforms like the Green New Deal calling for an end of fossil fuels use. Asked whether he was concerned that the EPA may be out of synch with polls showing an overwhelming number of young people believe climate change should be a priority issue, Wheeler was dismissive. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHALLOWELL, Maine — A proposed 145-mile (233-kilometer) transmission line that would serve as a conduit for Canadian hydropower to reach the New England power grid cleared a major hurdle Thursday with approval of the Maine Public Utilities Commission.The three-member panel unanimously approved Central Maine Power's $1 billion project, but further regulatory approvals will be necessary for the project to become a reality.CMP's New England Clean Energy Connect would allow 1,200 megawatts of Canadian hydropower to reach consumers in Massachusetts to meet that state's green energy goals. Commissioners concluded that there are substantial benefits for Maine, as well, including reduced carbon pollution, lower electric rates and enhanced energy reliability, along with $258 million in incentives.Commission Chairman Mark Vannoy said Thursday that the economic and environmental gains are needed in a region trying to balance the need for more energy with environmental stewardship."We're at a critical point here: It's needed, it's necessary, and the state of Maine is moving forward," he said, calling the outcome "a good result for Maine ratepayers."But a staff attorney for the Natural Resources Council of Maine called the decision "deeply flawed" and accused regulators of siding with "Central Maine Power's corporate interests over the best interests of the state of Maine and ratepayers of Maine.""This decision dramatically overstates the benefits while dramatically undervaluing the negative impacts to the state of Maine," Sue Ely said.Though the project is being funded by Massachusetts, critics say it would destroy Maine's unspoiled wilderness without guarantees of environmental benefits. They also say it would snuff out homegrown green energy projects, like solar and wind power, in Maine.Much of the project calls for widening existing corridors, but a new swath would be cut through 53 miles (85 kilometers) of wilderness in western Maine. It would cross the Appalachian Trail, 263 wetlands and 115 streams, according to the Natural Resources Council of Maine.Further approvals are necessary. The Maine Department of Environmental Protection, the Maine Land Use Planning Commission and other regulators all have to approve some aspect of the CMP project. The Department of Environmental Protection will make the final decision on CMP's site permit and compliance with the state Natural Resources Protection Act, agency spokesman David Madore said.Maine Public Advocate Barry Hobbins and Democratic Gov. Janet Mills both endorsed the project after CMP sweetened the deal with a package of benefits for Maine.The utility's $258 million in incentives would provide $140 million for rate relief for retail customers, $50 million for low-income energy customers, $15 million to subsidize heat pump purchases and $15 million for electric cars and charging stations.Supporters say the project would provide electricity for a million homes and drive down electricity rates for all of New England. An independent consultant, London Economics International LLC, concluded carbon dioxide emissions would be lowered by 3.6 million metric tons per year.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressALBANY, N.Y. — The Environmental Protection Agency declined for now to make General Electric restart dredging in the Hudson River, triggering a wave of condemnation Thursday from New York officials and environmentalists who say contaminant levels from its industrial pollution remain too high.The EPA issued a certificate to Boston-based GE saying that it has completed its remedial action under the federal Superfund program. Critics of the cleanup wanted the EPA to withhold the certificate and to demand further dredging. EPA Regional Administrator Peter Lopez said more time and testing are needed to fully assess the $1.7 billion cleanup that GE has done, and he stressed that the company can still be compelled in the coming decades to do more work, including additional dredging."GE is not off the hook," Lopez told reporters during a conference call. "If new information comes in that causes EPA to conclude that more work is needed to protect public health and the environment, we can and will require GE to take that action."Gov. Andrew Cuomo and state Attorney General Letitia James, both Democrats, promptly announced they intend to sue the EPA over its decision. They claim levels of the contaminating polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs, remain unacceptably high in the river sediment and in fish. Scenic Hudson and Riverkeeper, two environmental groups lobbying for additional dredging, said they would support litigation."Since the EPA has failed to hold GE accountable for fulfilling its obligation to restore the river, New York state will take any action necessary to protect our waterways and that includes suing the EPA to demand a full and complete remediation,'" Cuomo said in a written news release. "Anything less is unacceptable."Cuomo accused the Republican Trump Administration of putting corporations' interests ahead of public health and the environment. EPA officials said their decision was guided by Superfund law and science.The EPA said in a "five-year review" of the river released Friday that there is not enough testing data on fish, water and sediment yet to determine if the cleanup will succeed in its goal of protecting human health and the environment. Lopez said that will take more time and monitoring before a conclusion could be reached.The review found some signs of progress in removing highly contaminated sediment, though it found three spots in the upper river with slightly elevated levels of PCBs.Until the mid-1970s, GE factories discharged more than 1 million pounds (450,000 kilograms) of PCBs into the river. The probable carcinogen, used as coolants and lubricants in electrical equipment, was banned in 1977.AdvertisementSupported by`By Tim GrayFor investors, the risks of climate change are already raging, with intense storms and wildfires leading to property damage and business disruption.California’s deadly fires last year resulted in losses of tens of billions of dollars — and may have contributed to the January bankruptcy of Pacific Gas and Electric, the electric utility. “The risk of catastrophic fire has increased in California, and the reason is climate change,” said Julie K. Gorte, senior vice president for sustainable investing at Pax World Funds.But the investment opportunities, beyond renewable energy, have received less attention. Nonetheless, a few mutual funds have made it their mission to invest in companies that can help mitigate greenhouse gas emissions or aid adaptation to a warmer world.They’re stepping beyond what have been the main investment responses to climate change — betting narrowly on green energy, like wind and solar power, or avoiding the worst polluters, like oil and coal companies, in low-carbon mutual funds and exchange-traded funds.“More and more clients, individuals and institutions, are asking for funds that address climate change and climate risk,” said Leslie Samuelrich, president of Green Century Capital Management in Boston. “Because of that, asset managers are starting to develop portfolios to meet that demand.”The Hartford Environmental Opportunities Fund is one such fund. It’s not just “about the weather,” said Alan T. Hsu, portfolio manager. “It’s about technology and assets being created today to address climate-related risks that are visible already.” The fund, with a net expense ratio of 0.89 percent, returned an annual average of 6.51 percent over the three years through March.More than half the fund’s assets are invested in companies involved in low-carbon electricity and energy efficiency, such as Iberdrola, a Spanish utility that relies on wind power. But holdings also include water and agriculture stocks, such as Deere & Company, the farm-equipment maker.“In a world with a more adverse climate, a lot of arable land will become much less productive at the same time as population increases the demand on that land,” Mr. Hsu said. Outfits that can help farmers increase fertility stand to benefit.Mr. Hsu works for Wellington Management in Boston. Hartford Funds hired Wellington to run the fund, which opened in 2016. Mr. Hsu said Wellington created the strategy a decade ago for its institutional investor clients, like pension funds, because it expected the federal government to begin regulating carbon emissions in the United States. That didn’t happen, but regulation has surged in states, cities and other countries.“Since 1997, the year of the Kyoto climate protocol, the number of climate laws and policies in the world has basically doubled every five years. There were more than 1,200 by early 2017,” Mr. Hsu said. Those rules present legal-liability risk and the possibility of higher costs for companies, he said. The Kyoto Protocol is an international agreement to limit greenhouse-gas emissions.In stewarding the Hartford fund, Mr. Hsu can draw on insights from a research partnership that Wellington created last year with the Woods Hole Research Center, a nonprofit climate specialist in Falmouth, Mass. The two are merging market know-how and climate science to identify metrics that matter for investing. Wellington, which manages funds for other companies, including Vanguard, says the partnership’s findings will inform all the portfolios it runs, not just the Hartford fund.Jon F. Hale, global head of sustainability research for Morningstar, said he wasn’t aware of another pairing like that between Wellington and Woods Hole — plenty of money managers have begun to talk about climate change, but none have so publicly allied themselves with an independent scientific expert. Mr. Hale predicted that other big investment companies would find themselves at a disadvantage if they didn’t seek comparable means of assessing the investment implications of a warmer world.“They have to figure out the extent to which climate change poses a direct and immediate risk to their portfolios,” he said.An early line of inquiry in the Wellington-Woods Hole partnership is how higher temperatures may induce population migration, said Philip B. Duffy, Woods Hole’s president and executive director. “Of all of the different hazards, drought seems to be one that’s particularly powerful in inducing migration,” he said. “If there’s not water, you can’t live somewhere.”The financial implications of that could play out in surprising ways, said Christopher J. Goolgasian, Wellington’s director of climate research. Movable assets might become more valuable than stationary ones. “You might think about cruise ships over theme parks and farm equipment over farms,” he said.Or you might consider investing in nontraditional sorts of farms — which is why aquaculture is one of the themes of the GMO Climate Change Fund. Its manager, Lucas White, includes in the fund less obvious industries, like fish farming and copper mining, alongside obvious ones, like clean energy and energy efficiency. Mr. White’s fund caters to institutional investors like pension funds and has returned an annual average of 8.54 percent since its April 2017 inception through February 2018, the latest information available from the fund.“If you think agricultural productivity will be challenged, people will need to get their protein from somewhere,” he said. “Cattle is a disaster for climate change, but salmon is very carbon efficient.” Cows produce methane, a potent greenhouse gas, and tropical forests, which absorb carbon dioxide, are often razed for ranching.Mr. White’s allocation to copper stocks is a sideways play on renewable energy. Some environmentally minded investors avoid miners, because of the pollution and political controversies that can accompany their operations. Mr. White, in contrast, bets big, allocating about 10 percent of his fund to copper diggers, including Freeport-McMoRan.“We need an immense amount of copper to respond to climate change,” he said. The metal is required for wind and solar projects, as well as electric-vehicle-charging networks.Not every manager in this niche views renewable energy as a crucial play. The Pax Global Environmental Markets Fund mostly avoids the sector. Instead, it holds big slugs of agriculture and water stocks; together, those total more than 40 percent of its assets.That’s partly because the fund’s mandate is broader than just responding to global warming, said co-manager Hubert T. Aarts. “Some of what we hold is purely climate related, but the portfolio is not only that,” he said. The fund also buys companies that help deliver cleaner water and air and dispose of waste.“You want to breathe fresh air even without climate change,” he said. The fund, with a net expense ratio of 0.98 percent, returned an annual average of 10.36 percent over the three years through March.Few mutual funds explicitly make climate change the core of their mandate, Mr. Hale of Morningstar said. But investors can find offerings with an ecological bent among those that more broadly incorporate environmental, social and governance factors into their stock picking, he said.An example is Brown Advisory’s Sustainable Growth Fund. As the name suggests, the fund invests in companies its managers judge as having sustainable business practices and good long-term growth prospects. That makes climate change part of the calculus, said co-manager Karina Funk. “If you want your company to thrive over the next 20 years, you absolutely need to be thinking about climate change,” she said.Ms. Funk said she and her co-manager, David B. Powell, investigate companies’ sustainability records because the best-run companies have forward-looking environmental practices, in addition to solid fundamentals.As an example, she offered up one of her fund’s largest holdings, J. B. Hunt Transport Services, the freight company. “They have a high carbon footprint, and yet they’re way less carbon intensive than their peers,” she said. “They use trains for a lot of the shipping journey, and that can be up to 50 percent more fuel efficient than over-the-road trucking.” Ms. Funk’s fund, with an expense ratio of 0.88 percent, returned an annual average of 18.84 percent over the three years through March.Active fund managers may have an advantage in this niche, compared with index funds and E.T.F.s. They may be able to identify and exploit the new risks and opportunities presented by a warming world and wilder weather, said Matthew C. Brancato, a principal at Vanguard. Assessing environmental performance from an investment perspective is a relatively new endeavor, so there aren’t standard approaches or measures, he said. That can create an opening for research to yield valuable insights.On top of that, active managers are more likely to ask companies to improve their environmental practices, he said. (There is at least one index offering with a climate focus, the ETHO Climate Leadership U.S. E.T.F.)Whether one chooses an active or passively managed fund, costs matter in this niche, as in any other, Mr. Brancato said. Even if an actively managed fund outperforms competitors, high costs can erase its advantage.Another consideration is how much of a portfolio to dedicate to a specialized fund. Michelle E. Brownstein, vice president of private client services at Personal Capital in San Francisco, said she wouldn’t recommend that someone put more than 10 percent of their total investments into such a fund. Her recommendation assumes that person has a well-diversified portfolio and that the fund chosen is low cost, she said. “Socially responsible funds tend to be a little more expensive than other strategies, and they shouldn’t be.”For some investors, climate change isn’t just a money problem but also a moral one; these folks want their money to help the transition to a greener economy. Investment companies are aware of that and increasingly offer funds and E.T.F.s that let shareholders express their values in this way.Dimensional Fund Advisors offered its first two sustainable funds more than a decade ago. They aim to buy the best environmental performers in each economic sector, said Gerard K. O’Reilly, the company’s co-chief executive and chief investment officer.Mr. O’Reilly said he’s not convinced a sustainable strategy can outperform the broader market. “Investors can account for firms’ social and sustainable practices without meaningfully changing the expected return of their portfolios,” he said. Dimensional’s funds have kept pace with their benchmark indexes. Its U.S. Sustainability Core 1 Portfolio, with an expense ratio of 0.25 percent, returned an annual average of 13.18 percent for the three years through March, compared with 13.48 percent for the Russell 3000 index.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMEXICO CITY — Belize has approved a plan to set aside nearly 12 percent of its territorial waters as a protected area, more than doubling the size of existing reserves in the world's second largest barrier reef.The major expansion of the small Caribbean island's protected areas follows a six-year effort by international scientists and conservation groups led by Belizeans, the Environmental Defense Fund said in a statement on Friday.The coalition found zones that can protect marine habitat and allow for recovery of degraded ecosystems, while helping replenish fish stocks, the EDF said.Coral reefs, diverse marine ecosystems formed from tiny organisms, have faced intensifying stress worldwide from rising ocean temperatures compounded by overfishing, pollution and tourism.Scientists say they are key barometers of global warming.The Belize cabinet agreed Tuesday to increase the country's marine "replenishment zones" - globally recognised fisheries management tools to protect habitats - from 4.5 percent to 11.6 percent, according to a government statement. Parts of the Belize reef, a World Heritage Site, are in "critical condition," according to a 2018 report from environmental group Healthy Reef for Healthy People.But a 2017 decision to ban offshore oil and gas activities was a step towards its possible removal from the World Heritage Site's "in danger" list, the group said. "A healthy reef and vibrant fisheries sector is necessary for Belize to achieve its goals for reducing poverty, improving food security and nutrition and increasing investment,” said Belize Fisheries Administrator Beverly Wade in the EDF statement.Katie McGinty, EDF's Senior Vice President for Oceans at Environmental Defense Fund, called Friday's expansion of protected sites a "remarkable accomplishment that is setting an example for the rest of the world."AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBRASILIA — Brazil will have difficulty meeting a year-end deadline to complete a registry that matches all rural properties to their owners, a step in the fight against illegal deforestation, the country's forestry director, Valdir Colatto, said on Wednesday.However, with all but five percent of rural properties recorded in the registry, known as CAR, the country will this month launch a programme to integrate the data already available with its system for monitoring deforestation via satellite imaging, a person with knowledge of the matter said. That will allow for the country's environmental authorities to more easily match deforestation to rural property owners in order to then issue fines or take other action, the person said.Brazil has sought to implement the CAR system since it revised deforestation rules in 2012 but has repeatedly delayed the deadline for property owners to register.The system will now come online just after right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro, a vocal critic of environmental fines, assumed office on Jan. 1. While fines are a key tool for environmental agency Ibama to enforce the law, Bolsonaro has pledged to end what he calls "an industry of fines" he argues has run amok in the country.In a controversial move, Bolsonaro moved the forestry service from the Environment Ministry to the Agriculture Ministry. Colatto, a former congressmen and member of the agriculture voting bloc, now oversees forestry for the Agriculture Ministry, including the CAR system.While some 95 percent of rural properties are already in the system, registering all of the remainder is a difficult task with much of the remainder in north and northeast of the country, Colatto told Reuters.Those regions are generally poorer and less developed, with virtually all of the north of the country occupied by Amazon rainforest.They may be able to reach 98 percent compliance this year, he said."Brazil is really big. It's difficult for you to reach all of the country," he said."Look its difficult. Because you have difficulty entering into contact with all the people and all the landowners. But we'll pursue this (goal)."AdvertisementSupported byKiana Melrose Scott and Alexander Wolf Adams were married March 23 in a private ceremony at the West Point Light House at Discovery Park in Seattle. Hathaway Burden, a Universal Life minister and friend of the couple, officiated.The bride, 33, and groom, 35, met at the University of Washington, from which she received a master of public administration degree, and both a master’s degree and Ph.D. in political communication, and he received a master’s degree in marine and environmental affairs.The bride is a program director of the Tides Center, a nonprofit incubator in Seattle. She graduated from Williams College in Williamstown, Mass.She is a daughter of Martha Scott of San Juan Island, Wash.AdvertisementSupported byletterA former agency official praises Andrew Wheeler, a career employee, for his qualifications and character.To the Editor:Re “This Coal Lobbyist Should Not Run the E.P.A.,” by Dominique Browning (Op-Ed, nytimes.com, Jan. 14) regarding President Trump’s nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency:Unlike the first E.P.A. administrator in the Trump administration, Andrew Wheeler has decades of experience working on environmental issues as a career E.P.A. employee and as the Senate Environment Committee’s staff director. Senators and congressional staffers, both Republicans and Democrats, know him well from his long tenure, and while they may disagree with him, all like and respect him because of his knowledge, experience and approach.Since becoming acting administrator, Mr. Wheeler has been an effective leader at the agency. He is committed to protecting the environment and has the respect of the career staff, but he is also committed to correcting the regulatory overreach that occurred under the previous administration. Mr. Wheeler understands how the regulatory process works and the type of effort that is required to develop effective and legally defensible regulatory reforms.AdvertisementSupported byBy Coral DavenportWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — In a major legal blow to President Trump’s push to expand offshore oil and gas development, a federal judge ruled that an executive order by Mr. Trump that lifted an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean and parts of the North Atlantic coast was unlawful.The decision, by Judge Sharon L. Gleason of the United States District Court for the District of Alaska, concluded late Friday that President Barack Obama’s 2015 and 2016 withdrawal from drilling of about 120 million acres of Arctic Ocean and about 3.8 million acres in the Atlantic “will remain in full force and effect unless and until revoked by Congress.” She wrote that an April 2017 executive order by Mr. Trump revoking the drilling ban “is unlawful, as it exceeded the president’s authority.”The decision, which is expected to be appealed in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, immediately reinstates the drilling ban on most of the Arctic Ocean off the coast of Alaska, a pristine region home to endangered species including polar bears and bowhead whales where oil companies have long sought to drill. Along the Atlantic coast, it blocks drilling around a series of coral canyons that run from Norfolk, Va., to the Canadian border which are home to unique deepwater corals and rare fish species. In addition, Friday’s ruling by the judge, an Obama appointee, has broader implications for Mr. Trump’s effort to push drilling across the American coastline and on public lands.Specifically, the Arctic Ocean drilling case could give legal ammunition to opponents of Mr. Trump’s efforts to roll back protections for two million acres of national monuments created by Mr. Obama and President Bill Clinton.The case adds to a growing roster of legal losses for Mr. Trump’s efforts to undo Mr. Obama’s environmental legacy. Experts in environmental law estimate that the Trump administration has now lost about 40 environmental cases in federal courts.Most immediately, the decision will force the Interior Department to withdraw the waters of the Arctic Ocean from its forthcoming plan detailing where the federal government intends to lease federal waters to oil companies for offshore drilling. A draft of that plan published last year called for drilling off the entire United States coastline.The White House referred questions on the matter to the Interior Department, where a spokeswoman declined to comment.And although Friday’s court decision relates specifically to a law on offshore drilling, it could also hamstring Mr. Trump’s efforts to erase or reduce the creation of large protected areas of public lands by previous presidents.“The statutes and the Supreme Court have been silent on the authority of a president to modify or reduce a predecessor’s protections of these public lands, waters and monuments,” said Patrick Parenteau, a professor of environmental law at Vermont Law School. “But these decisions are showing that if a president wants to reverse a predecessor’s environmental policy, they have to give a cogent reason why. Just saying ‘energy dominance’ is not enough. Saying ‘I won the election’ is not enough.”Professor Parenteau predicted that the case was likely to reach the Supreme Court, though probably not for several years.Both Mr. Obama’s efforts to use his executive authority to ban drilling in the Arctic Ocean, and Mr. Trump’s efforts to undo that ban, are legally unprecedented.In using his executive authority to permanently ban drilling in most of the Arctic Ocean, Mr. Obama relied on an obscure provision of a 1953 law, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, which governs how the executive branch uses federal waters for offshore energy exploration.The law includes a provision that lets presidents put those waters off limits to oil and gas drilling. Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, Richard M. Nixon and Mr. Clinton used the law to protect sections of the Atlantic, Pacific and Arctic Oceans, but those protections came with time limits, usually one to two decades.In late 2016, as he sought to legally cement environmental protections before Mr. Trump, then the president-elect, took office, Mr. Obama used what both supporters and critics called a creative and unusual interpretation of that law to set a permanent ban on drilling in most of the Arctic Ocean. Three months after taking office, Mr. Trump issued an executive order rescinding the ban. That made him the first president to seek to revoke a decision by his predecessor to use the law to protect federal waters.Environmental groups promptly sued the administration over the move. They welcomed Friday’s court decision.“Since coming into office, Trump has been on an one-man campaign to undo the work of his predecessor,” said Niel Lawrence, a lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, who took part in the oral arguments in the Alaska case. “What this opinion confirms is that there are constitutional limits to that.”Erik Milito, a spokesman for the American Petroleum Institute, which lobbies for the oil industry and which joined the Trump administration’s case, said, “While we disagree with the decision, our nation still has a significant opportunity before us in the development of the next offshore leasing plan to truly embrace our nation’s energy potential and ensure American consumers and businesses continue to benefit from U.S. energy leadership.”Experts said that Judge Gleason’s decision could affect the legal outcome of Mr. Trump’s efforts to roll back certain protections created by his predecessors on public lands.Just as presidents have used the 1953 offshore-drilling law to protect federal waters, they have used a different law, the 1906 Antiquities Act, put in place by President Theodore Roosevelt, to designate and protect millions of acres of lands as permanent public monuments. Presidents throughout the past century have created such monuments. While at least two presidents have used their authority to shrink the size of monuments created by their predecessors, Mr. Trump has done so at a more drastic scale. In December 2017, Mr. Trump cut about two million acres from two national monuments in Utah: the Bears Ears monument, created by Mr. Obama, and the Grand Staircase-Escalante monument, created by Mr. Clinton. At the time it was the largest rollback of federal land protection in the nation’s history.Already, lawsuits on the issue are making their way through federal courts. Professor Parenteau and others predicted that Judge Gleason’s decision could possibly have a bearing on those cases. That is because, in the language of both laws, Congress gave the president the right to occasionally designate public lands and waters for protection. However, each of the laws is silent on whether a successor can reduce or revoke those protections.If Mr. Trump’s challengers win in court, the decision could affirm future presidents’ right to set bans of offshore drilling that could be undone only by Congress (as opposed to a later president) and similarly could set a precedent that presidential decisions to expand protections of public land could be revised or reversed only by Congress.If Mr. Trump prevails in court, future presidents could potentially use an executive order to shrink any of the dozens of monuments created by their predecessors or similarly revoke presidential decisions to protect federal waters.For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLAUSANNE, Switzerland — Environmental group Greenpeace on Thursday accused Nestle of not doing enough to reduce single-use plastics polluting landfills and oceans.Jennifer Morgan, executive director at Greenpeace International, said the world's biggest food group should set a target for reducing single-use packaging and invest in alternatives focussing on refill and reuse."Nestle is a major contributor to the plastic crisis and environmental problem that we have right now," Morgan told Reuters on the sidelines of the company's annual general meeting in Lausanne, where Greenpeace activists intervened shaking banners.Nestle Chief Executive, Mark Schneider, said he thought focussing exclusively on reusable packaging was wrong. "Why rely on just one lever when you have four or five you can use," he said, citing the importance of biodegradable packaging and recycling.Growing concern over environmental issues - from climate change to plastic pollution - has triggered a wave of global student protests, piling pressure on policymakers and business leaders.Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and Nestle are the world's biggest producers of plastic waste, according to a report last year from Greenpeace and the Break Free From Plastic movement. It analysed 187,000 pieces of trash collected in 42 countries Duncan Pollard, Nestle head of sustainability, said the company agreed about the need to reduce plastic use. "But we need to make sure the new packaging solutions are safe and that consumers accept them," he told Reuters, adding it was too early to say plastic use had peaked.Nestle has said it used 1.7 million tonnes of plastic packaging last year. Greenpeace said that was up 13 percent, but Pollard said Nestle had since changed the way it measured plastic use and the true rise was below 3 percent.Last month, the European Parliament approved a law banning a wide range of single-use plastic items by 2021.Nestle has vowed to make 100 percent of its packaging recyclable or reusable by 2025 and push the use of compostable and biodegradable materials polymers.Greenpeace criticised Nestle's promises as lacking transparency, clear targets and significant investment. "Material substitution is a false solution," Morgan said. "It will just shift the impact to the world's forests and agricultural lands." Pollard said he didn't share concerns about deforestation and thought the shift to paper would help tackle climate change. Nestle was also working on a new system of water dispensers.Greenpeace on Wednesday launched a "plastic monster" video showing a fictional "Nestle Chief Plastics Officer" trying to buy a single-use plastic bottle of the company's Pure Life water from a vending machine and having dead fish and slimy waste explode in his face instead.AdvertisementSupported byEncouraging and exploiting division has worked for Trump, as far as his own electoral prospects are concerned. Can he keep it up?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.However often President Trump strays from his favored political strategy, he faithfully returns to it like a dog to a bone: first, polarize the American electorate along racial, cultural and economic lines, then exploit the schisms that have supplanted the class divisions that were once central to both American and European partisan politics.On one side of the divide are those whom the political scientists Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart describe in a 2016 paper as comfortable with “an inexorable cultural escalator moving postindustrial societies steadily in a more progressive direction.” This new direction amounts to what the authors callan intergenerational shift toward post-materialist values, such as cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism, generating rising support for left-libertarian parties such as the Greens and other progressive movements advocating environmental protection, human rights, and gender equality.On the other side, Norris and Inglehart write, is a counterrevolution, aretro backlash, especially among the older generation, white men, and less educated sectors, who sense decline and actively reject the rising tide of progressive values, resent the displacement of familiar traditional norms, and provide a pool of supporters potentially vulnerable to populist appeals.Economic distress, they argue, reinforces cultural alienation to produce fertile terrain for Trump. “Fears of economic insecurity, including the individual experience of the loss of secure, well-paid blue-collar jobs, and the collective experience of living in declining communities of the left-behinds” combine to make votersmore susceptible to the anti-establishment appeals of authoritarian-populist actors, offering simple slogans blaming “Them” for stripping prosperity, job opportunities, and public services from “Us.” The collision of these forces has produced the emergence of an American authoritarianism. In their book, “Cultural Backlash: Trump, Brexit and Authoritarian Populism,” which comes out later this week, Norris and Inglehart write that Trump has assumed leadership of this authoritarian movement,defined as a cluster of values prioritizing collective security for the group at the expense of liberal autonomy for the individual. Authoritarian values prioritize three core components: 1) the importance of security against risks of instability and disorder (foreigners stealing our jobs, immigrants attacking our women, terrorists threatening our safety); 2) the value of group conformity to preserve conventional traditions and to guard our way of life (defending “Us” against threats to “European values”); and 3) the need for loyal obedience toward strong leaders who protect the group and its customs (“I alone can fix it," “Believe me,” “Are you on my team?").The United States and many European countries, at various points in the last decade, have reached a critical juncture, Norris and Inglehart write: “The interwar generation, non-college graduates, the working class, white Europeans, the more religious, men and residents of rural communities” have come to feel “estranged from the silent revolution in social and moral values, left behind by cultural tides that they deeply reject.” These men and women, “until recently the politically and socially dominant group in Western cultures,” reacheda tipping point at which their hegemonic status, power and privilege is fading. Their values make them potential supporters for parties and leaders promising to restore national sovereignty (Make America Great Again), restrict immigration and multicultural diversity (Build a Wall) and defend traditional religious and conventional moral values.The debate over whether the rise of right-wing populism is driven by cultural anxiety, racism, ethnocentricity or economic deprivation may “be somewhat artificial,” Norris and Inglehart contend becauseinteractive processes may possibly link these factors, if structural changes in the work force and social trends in globalized markets heighten economic insecurity, and if this, in turn, stimulates a negative backlash among traditionalists toward cultural shifts. It may not be an either/or question, but one of relative emphasis with interactive effects.In this country, the nominally class-based politics of the New Deal fractured when working class non-college whites felt abandoned by a Democratic Party that shed its pre-civil rights, segregationist southern wing and that by the 1970s had adopted a culturally and racially liberal agenda. Over the past five decades, these white voters have formed the core of the populist right. Conversely, minorities, many of whom face the same economic hardships as working class whites, if not worse, are firmly aligned with the party of social and cultural liberalism and racial equality, the Democratic Party.“The new cultural cleavage dividing Populists and Cosmopolitan Liberals,” Norris and Inglehart write, is “orthogonal to the classic economic class cleavage” — in other words, the new division cuts across and splits the old economic class solidarity.Data from a preliminary American National Election Studies survey — provided to me by Matthew DeBell, a scholar at Stanford’s Institute for Research in the Social Sciences — revealed the strength of this new cleavage. The survey asked 2,500 men and women to rank their feelings toward Trump on a “feeling thermometer” scale of zero, “very cold or unfavorable,” to 100, “very warm or favorable.”The results illustrate that the population is even more divided between those who love and those who hate Trump than we might think. Sixty-one percent had either extremely hostile or very positive feelings toward the president.Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University, analyzed the responses to the survey. He wrote me that nearly two out of five of those surveyed, 38 percent, put Trump in the coldest range, 5 degrees or lower. 23 percent, put him in the warmest range, 95 degrees or higher. If the definition of extreme is expanded to encompass those who rank Trump from 0 to 10 and from 90 to 100, the total grows to 72 percent — 44 percent at 10 degrees or lower, 28 percent 90 degrees or higher.Abramowitz noted that “Trump is the most polarizing president in the history of ANES polling and Gallup polling.”Not only is Trump the most polarizing president, he has monopolized public attention and managed to make himself the object of both loathing and adoration.“The 2020 elections will certainly be all about Trump, assuming he is on the ballot and to a considerable extent even if he is not,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, wrote me in an email. “The 2018 election was all about Trump even though he was not on the ballot.”Stanley Feldman, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, elaborated on Trump’s self-generated centrality in an email:While Democrats and Republicans were already quite polarized before Trump ran for the presidency, I don’t think there is any question that he has contributed to further polarization. It is increasingly difficult to find people who don’t feel strongly about him.Trump, Feldman noted,taps into some fundamental issues in contemporary American politics — race/ethnicity, social issues, nationalism — and his rhetoric — clearly designed to appeal to his base — turns off many of those who are not with him on those issues. When you do little or nothing to broaden your support beyond your core voters you will generate extreme affective reactions.Feldman posed the question:Will this make the 2020 election largely about Trump? To a great extent yes, though the answer to that will depend in part on who the Democratic candidate is. As we saw in 2016, negative reactions to Hillary Clinton contributed to the outcome of that election.Feldman’s point about Clinton leads to the next question. As the Democratic selection of a nominee begins in earnest, one issue threatens the cohesion of the center-left coalition: whether the party should support expansive liberal initiatives like Medicare for All, a sharp hike in tax rates on the rich and a Green New Deal or whether it should stake out the center.Columnists who lean toward the center themselves have been particularly sharp in their criticism of the leftward movement of the party.“Democrats Are Boosting Trump’s Re-election Prospects,” read the headline of a National Journal article last week by Josh Kraushaar: Their top 2020 presidential hopefuls are embracing socialist-minded economic policy, from a Green New Deal to single-payer health insurance. It’s playing right into the president’s hands.Gerald Seib, a columnist at The Wall Street Journal, wrote earlier this week that “Democrats have arrived at a moment of great opportunity, but also of great peril.”Increasingly, he argued, the party has becomeidentified with policy proposals that are easy for Republicans to caricature as left-wing extremism. It is a fair bet that a majority of congressional Democrats don’t support either a 70 percent top tax rate or an across-the-board wealth tax on the richest Americans.In addition, Seib noted, “the party is beginning to experience the consequences of a zero-tolerance attitude on perceived misbehavior.”According to Seib, “Democrats face this question: Could they manage to scare off that center just as it has become so available?” The risk, Seib wrote,is that centrist voters will think they see that an angry left wing taking charge. Democrats could appear to be succumbing to the national mood of anger, when the better image might be of hope.In his State of the Union address on Feb. 5, Trump laid the groundwork for an assault on Democrats, declaring:Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country. America was founded on liberty and independence — not government coercion, domination, and control. We are born free, and we will stay free. Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.I asked Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts who is one of the directors of the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, whether Democratic primary voters are pushing presidential candidates to take stands on issues further to the left than the general electorate would accept.Contrary to the view of many political analysts, Schaffner countered with data suggesting that this is not the case.“I actually don’t think Democratic primary voters are substantially more liberal than Democrats more broadly,” he wrote, adding that many of the party’s new policy initiatives are, in fact, “favored by a majority of those who voted in 2016.”He cited the following results from the 2016 Cooperative Congressional Election Study survey.Who favored granting legal status to immigrants? Democratic primary voters: 79 percent support; Democrats in general: 77 percent support; all voters: 55 percent support.Who would require minimum amounts of renewable energy? Democratic primary voters: 85 percent support; Democrats in general: 80 percent support; all voters: 61 percent support.Ban assault rifles? Democratic primary voters: 91 percent support; Democrats in general: 84 percent support; all voters: 64 percent.Eliminate mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent offenders? Democratic primary voters: 84 percent support; Democrats in general: 78 percent support; all voters: 67 percent.How about raising the minimum wage to $12 per hour? Democratic primary voters: 92 percent support; Democrats in general: 90 percent support; all voters: 65 percent.Along similar lines, four political scientists, John Sides and Christopher Warshaw of George Washington University, and Lynn Vavreck and Chris Tausanovitch of UCLA, write in a March 2018 paper, “On the Representativeness of Primary Electorates” that “primary voters are frequently characterized as an ideologically extreme subset of their party, and thus partially responsible for increasing party polarization in government.” On the contrary, they find “that primary voters are similar to rank and file voters in their party” and thus “the composition of primary electorates does not exert a polarizing effect above what might arise from voters in the party as a whole.”Jacobson of UCSD strongly agreed, arguing that Democrats’ intense dislike of Trump will make them willing to forgive a candidate who fails to adopt all their favored policies if the candidate looks like a winner:Most Democrats will have as their prime goal — far more important than positions taken by the candidates — making sure Trump does not have a second term.The national election survey cited above reveals the depth of the electorate’s divisions on a range of issues in the Trump era.On what may prove to the crucial subject of debate over the next two — impeachment — the public is split.The survey found that a 42.1 plurality favors impeachment, including 24.9 percent who favor it strongly. A slightly smaller 38 percent oppose impeachment, including 30 percent who oppose it strongly. 19.9 percent did not take a stand.Americans are evenly divided in their assessment of Trump’s repeated denials that neither he nor his campaign ever coordinated with Russia to defeat Hillary Clinton. According to the survey, 49.9 percent agreed with the statement “Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign probably coordinated with the Russians,” while 50.1 percent said the campaign “probably did not coordinate.”One of Trump’s signature claims during the 2016 campaign was the promise that he would “drain the swamp” of corruption in the nation’s capital. That promise, according the public, is not holding up well.The survey asked “Has corruption in government increased, decreased, or stayed the same since Donald Trump became president?” The result? More than half, 54 percent, said corruption has increased under Trump, including 26.6 percent who said it has increased “a great deal.” 28 percent said the level of corruption remains unchanged, and 18.4 percent said corruption had decreased. 3.1 percent said corruption had decreased “a great deal.”Trump has railed against the Mueller investigation since it began, calling it an “illegal Joseph McCarthy style Witch Hunt.” Asked about the Mueller investigation, 45.1 of those surveyed said they approved, 16.6 points more than the 28.5 percent who said they disapproved, 19.7 percent “extremely strongly.” 28.4 percent had no opinion.Trump has pushed the authoritarian envelope further than any president (or major party presidential candidate) in recent memory.Let’s turn back to Gary Jacobson. “As long as Trump is on the scene, the nation is bound to remain deeply divided,” Jacobson writes in “Extreme Referendum: Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections,” which will appear in a forthcoming issue of Political Science Quarterly:To the extent that he reshapes the Republican Party in his white nationalist image, these divisions will deepen further and every election, like the 2018 midterms, will be fought with both sides convinced that nothing less than the future of American democracy is at stake.Norris and Inglehart suggest that the dependence of the populist right on older voters may lead to its steady decline as those voters die off, but they are not confident that this will happen. “It remains to be seen how resilient liberal democracy will be in Western societies, or whether it will be damaged irreparably by authoritarian populist forces” they write at the conclusion of their book. “The problem is not just Trump, nor is it just America. It reflects pervasive economic and cultural changes, for which there are no easy answers.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Former U.S. Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke, who stepped down in December amid ethics investigations, has joined the board of junior mining exploration company U.S. Gold Corp, the company said on Tuesday.Zinke, who ran the Interior Department, which oversees America’s vast public lands, aggressively pursued President Donald Trump’s agenda to promote oil drilling and coal mining by expanding federal leasing, cutting royalty rates, and easing land protections despite environmental protests."Zinke has a lot of credibility in the mining industry. We think his credibility and gravitas will give us visibility, which we need to advance the company and benefit our shareholders," U.S. Gold Corp CEO Edward Karr told Reuters.The company has a gold exploration project on Wyoming state land at the Copper King deposit and is going through state environmental reviews and regulations. It also has the Keystone project, which has 650 mining claims on a major gold trend on federal land managed by Interior's Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in Nevada.Karr said the company wants to prove that there is a world class deposit there to attract interest from mining company Barrick Gold, which owns property to the north of the Keystone project. "Where Zinke could provide value is being on the ground and interacting with BLM's Nevada office," he said. In a statement, Zinke said his work at Interior "can add tremendous value to the company." AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersMELBOURNE — An Australia coal mine proposed by India's Adani Enterprises that has been in planning since 2010 has become a lightning rod for a debate on climate change ahead of the Australian election next month.The mine, which has found support in marginal Queensland state because of the regional jobs it could provide, has also come under increasing fire from voters after a series of extreme weather events over summer moved climate concerns up the political agenda.Adani is fighting an uphill battle to get approval as investors demand banks and insurers phase out funding fossil fuels, and after prices for Australian thermal coal tanked over the past few months following delayed Chinese customs clearance. Australia's ruling Liberal-National coalition government approved an environmental permit relating to groundwater management last week but said there are still nine permits to go. Below are a series of milestones in the development of the mine. * India's Adani agreed to buy the Galilee coal project in Queensland from Australia's Linc Energy in a cash and royalty deal worth $2.7 billion (£2.06 billion) in 2010.* The purchase was envisaged to possibly unlock as much as $28 billion in coal projects by opening up the Galilee basin, building rail infrastructure and creating the world's biggest coal port, adjoining the Great Barrier Reef. * Adani was initially looking to develop the Carmichael mine at a cost of $4.1 billion, with the aim of producing 60 million tonnes a year of coal for export mostly to power stations in India.* Early plans would have involved building a 185 km (115 miles) rail line, estimated to cost $6.8 billion, according to the state government's project website at the time. http://www.deedi.qld.gov.au* The proposed development, which would require an expansion at a port that Adani bought in 2011, included dredging near the environmentally sensitive Great Barrier Reef, fuelled fierce opposition by environmentalists and indigenous groups. * In 2012, Adani's Australian chief quit amid delays in getting approval for the project. * India's biggest private sector coal trader acquired the Abbot Point Coal Terminal port from the Queensland government in 2011, considering it a key part of its plan to ship coal from Australia to India and for other exports.* Analysts have say building the mine would help make Adani's port more profitable. It already has long-term "take-or-pay" contracts with coal exporters such as Glencore Plc and Japan's Mitsubishi Corp and Sumitomo Corp.* Australia's Great Barrier Reef watchdog gave the green light in Jan 2017 for millions of cubic metres of dredged mud to be dumped near the fragile reef, sparking further protests. * Adani announced a revised mine plan late last year, saying it would fund the project itself after it struggled to find lenders, as it cut the mine's scope to 10 million tonnes, or one sixth of its former size.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — New York state officials plan to sue the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for allowing General Electric Co to stop clearing the Hudson River of PCB contamination before the cleanup work was finished.Governor Andrew Cuomo and Attorney General Letitia James announced the planned lawsuit on Thursday, after the EPA issued a "certificate of completion" permitting GE to stop dredging until further studies showed whether it had done enough cleanup."Time and again the Trump administration puts corporations and polluters' interests ahead of public health and the environment," Cuomo said."Since the EPA has failed to hold GE accountable for fulfilling its obligation to restore the river, New York State will take any action necessary to protect our waterways," he added.New York is one of many Democratic-leaning states that often sue over White House efforts to ease regulatory oversight of businesses.In interviews on Thursday, EPA officials said they lacked enough data to require more dredging by Boston-based GE under its 2006 consent decree."This certification does not let GE off the hook," said Regional Administrator Peter Lopez, a former six-term Republican state assemblyman. "If the data shows we're not heading in the right direction, we have the ability to compel more work, which could mean more dredging."Lopez's deputy Walter Mugdan, a 43-year EPA veteran, added: "This is not a political decision. It is being driven by the science and the law."GE said the EPA decision confirmed it had "successfully completed the Hudson River dredging project," and pledged to collect more environmental data to assess river conditions.PCBs, or polychlorinated biphenyls, were used in electrical equipment, carbonless copy paper and other products before a 1979 U.S. manufacturing ban, and are considered possible human carcinogens. (https://www.epa.gov/pcbs/learn-about-polychlorinated-biphenyls-pcbs)GE dumped roughly 1.3 million pounds of PCBs from two since-closed capacitor manufacturing plants, located north of the state capital of Albany, into the Hudson River from 1947 to 1977.While most pollution occurred nearby in a 40-mile (64 km) zone, about 200 miles of the river was polluted, stretching as far south as Battery Park in Manhattan.GE has spent an estimated $1.7 billion over eight years on cleanup, including six years of dredging.But state officials called GE's work "incomplete," and said the EPA decision could make it harder to later require more dredging or other remedial measures.In a December study, the state's Department of Environmental Conservation found PCB levels in fish in the upper Hudson after dredging essentially the same as before.AdvertisementSupported byThe CheckupExperts say adults and children alike can benefit from avoiding canned goods and certain plastics and substituting natural products for commercial cleaning products. By Perri Klass, M.D.“We tend to think hormone disrupters are a mom and baby issue,” said Dr. Leonardo Trasande, the chief of the division of environmental pediatrics at N.Y.U. School of Medicine. “But it literally can be a life and death matter for folks who are not even trying to have a family.”Dr. Trasande is one of the doctors I work with in the pediatric clinic at Bellevue Hospital, and the author of “Sicker, Fatter, Poorer: the Urgent Threat of Hormone-Disrupting Chemicals to Our Health and Future … and What We Can Do About It.”There is significant evidence that several types of chemicals can in different ways interfere with the hormones that our bodies use as messengers for everything from sexual maturity and fertility to how we handle appetite and fat storage.Evidence has accumulated that these substances can change the ways that children’s bodies develop, starting very early. “We are also looking more and more at not just exposures in pregnancy, but exposures before conception, which is very interesting,” Dr. Trasande said. “It may be early exposures are shaping how gametes develop.”But what can we actually do to shield ourselves (and our gametes) and our children? The subtitle of Dr. Trasande’s book suggests that there are ways to protect ourselves and our families from substances that he and other environmental medicine specialists believe we will come to see as more and more dangerous, even at comparatively low levels.[Read more about reducing children’s chemical exposure.] The four categories of particularly concerning chemicals include pesticides, which can contaminate our produce; phthalates, which are used in cosmetics and personal care products and also in many kinds of food packaging; bisphenols, which are in the lining of aluminum cans; and flame retardants used in electronics, furniture and mattresses.“There are straightforward, simple steps to reduce exposures that don’t have to break the budget,” Dr. Trasande said. He suggested avoiding canned food consumption, along with foods that are highly packaged or processed, and in particular avoiding plastic bottles or containers marked on the bottom with 3, 6 or 7.Plastics marked with a 3, he said, are worrisome for phthalates, which inhibit male sex hormones and disrupt metabolism. A number 6 denotes styrene, which is a known carcinogen. And plastics marked with 7 contain bisphenol, which in the lab has been shown to be related to obesity.He pointed to a recent study in JAMA Internal Medicine. In a group of more than 44,000 French adults 45 and older, a 10 percent increase in what is called “ultraprocessed food” was associated with a 14 percent higher risk of death from all causes. (Ultraprocessed foods are industrial products with many additives.)These are very difficult links to draw, and it’s also possible that people who tend to eat ultraprocessed foods are making many other lifestyle choices that affect their health. One possible link might be, “phthalates and other food contaminants in those processed foods may inhibit testosterone function, which is known to be a major risk factor for adult cardiovascular disease and stroke,” Dr. Trasande said. But this kind of study can show only an association, it doesn’t establish cause and effect, and Dr. Trasande pointed out that the conclusions have been disputed by other experts.Even so, environmental health experts worry about both the food and the packaging. “Eat less processed food,” said Manish Arora, professor of environmental medicine and public health at Icahn School of Medicine at Mt. Sinai. It’s good for your body, he said, and “it’s also good for the environment, less processing, less carbon footprint, less chemicals into the environment, less chemicals back into us.”“Buy fresh food not wrapped in plastic,” Dr. Trasande said, since the contact of the food with the packaging is what you want to avoid.“How to help our children improve their health?” Dr. Arora asked. “There’s nothing like physical activity, fruits and vegetables.”But beyond protecting yourself and your own family as far as you can, Dr. Trasande said, “there’s so much we can do with the broader public action and social action.”Dr. Arora said, “It’s almost as if the products are released and then there’s a slow and cumbersome process to see if they’re harmful.” Decades can go by before that process is complete, he said, and during those decades, “an entire generation has been exposed during the formative years.”This was the story with lead, and more recently, he said, it was almost the story for many plastics. Lead was present in so many places in children’s environments, from paint to auto emissions, and was gradually understood to be more and more dangerous, even at levels of exposure which had been thought to be safe.AdvertisementSupported byBy Coral DavenportWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — The Obama administration violated federal law by failing to adequately take into account the climate change impact of leasing public land for oil gas drilling in Wyoming, a federal judge ruled Tuesday.But the decision by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia could also present a legal threat to President Trump’s agenda to quickly expand oil and gas drilling and coal mining across the nation’s public lands and waters. That’s because the decision amounts to a road map that could be used to challenge hundreds of Trump administration leases as well. However, experts said that, while the decision could lead to legal delays for the drilling expansion envisioned by Mr. Trump by tangling them in litigation, it was unlikely to halt it entirely.Tuesday’s decision by Judge Rudolph Contreras, which applied specifically to an Obama-era plan by the Interior Department’s Bureau of Land Management to lease several thousand acres of land for drilling in Wyoming, also concluded that the agency was legally required to consider the climate impact of all such lease sales for fossil fuel development.“This is the first court ruling that specifically tears apart the Interior Department’s failure to take into account the climate change of impact on drilling, on a national scale,” said Jeremy Nichols, the climate change and energy program director for WildEarth Guardians.In his decision, Judge Contreras wrote that, under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1970, federal agencies are required to consider and quantify the effect of the possible planet-warming emissions associated with the fossil fuels to be extracted from the sales of such leases. Already, that law requires the federal government to consider the on-site environmental effects of oil and gas drilling, such as water pollution and the effects on plants and animals of road construction. “What this decision says is, in evaluating the environmental consequences of the lease, an agency has to look not just at the consequences of the impacts immediately surrounding the lease but also the consequences down the road of burning the fuel once it’s extracted,” said Richard L. Revesz, an expert on environmental law at New York University. “That’s enormously important.” The Bureau of Land Management protested that it “would be required to identify any past, present, or reasonably foreseeable greenhouse-emitting projects worldwide,” an “impossible” scope of analysis.Judge Contreras wrote that the agency was correct in that the law “does not require the impossible.” But he wrote, “In short, BLM did not adequately quantify the climate change impacts of oil and gas leasing.” In general, the Trump administration’s proposed lease sales for oil and gas drilling have included less climate impact analysis than the Obama-era ones that were the focus of Judge Contreras’s decision.A spokeswoman for the Interior Department declined to respond to questions about the decision, saying the agency did not comment on ongoing litigation. A spokeswoman for the Western Energy Alliance, a coalition of fossil fuel companies that joined with the Interior Department in the case, called the decision “ripe for successful appeal.” “The judge is asking BLM to take a wild guess at how many wells would be developed on these leases and analyze greenhouse gas impacts for wells that will never be developed,” said the spokeswoman, Kathleen Sgamma. But other experts said that Judge Contreras’s requirement was not particularly onerous for companies. “It’s not a very time-consuming calculation,” said Mr. Revesz of New York University. “It’s based on models that already exist.” “The court is saying, you have to go back and take a harder look at the climate impacts,” said Harry Weiss, an expert in natural resources law at the firm Ballard Spahr. “But they’re also saying if they do a heck of job on figuring it out, then they can go back and drill.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Jesse McKinley[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — New York State lawmakers have agreed to impose a statewide ban on most types of single-use plastic bags from retail sales, changing a way of life for millions of New Yorkers as legislators seek to curb an unsightly and omnipresent source of litter.The plan, proposed a year ago by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, would be the second statewide ban, after California, which banned bags in 2016. Hawaii also effectively has a ban in place, since all the state’s counties bar such single-use bags.New York’s ban, which would begin next March, would forbid stores to provide customers with single-use plastic bags, which are nonbiodegradable and have been blamed for everything from causing gruesome wildlife deaths to thwarting recycling efforts.The ban, which is expected to be part of the state’s budget bills that are slated to be passed by Monday, would have a number of carveouts, including food takeout bags used by restaurants, bags used to wrap deli or meat counter products and bags for bulk items. Newspaper bags would also be exempted, as would garment bags and bags sold in bulk, such as trash or recycling bags.The plan would have an additional element allowing counties to opt in to a 5-cent fee on paper bags, revenue that would go to the state’s Environmental Protection Fund as well as a separate fund to buy reusable bags for consumers.In a statement released late Thursday afternoon, Mr. Cuomo said that “these bags have blighted our environment and clogged our waterways,” adding that the plan agreed to in Albany would be a way to “protect our natural resources for future generations of New Yorkers.”Supporters said that such a two-pronged approach — paper and plastic — was necessary not only to limit the flow of litter into the state’s streets, streams and oceanfront, but also to minimize the greenhouse emissions caused by their production.“There was a real understanding that there should be a ban on plastic,” said Todd Kaminsky, a Democratic state senator from Nassau County, who is the chairman of the environmental conservation committee. “And that if people go to paper rather than reusables, we are not that better off.”The news of the agreement between Mr. Cuomo and his legislative counterparts comes less than a year after a similar effort stalled as a result of opposition from Republicans, who led the Senate, and from a rogue Democratic senator, Simcha Felder of Brooklyn, who collaborated with the Republicans. That political dynamic changed in November, when Democrats won eight seats in the Senate, sweeping themselves back into the majority and rendering Mr. Felder’s opinion moot.The ban also marks an evolution for Mr. Cuomo, a third-term Democrat, who in 2017 signed a bill that effectively killed a New York City law that would have imposed a 5-cent fee on plastic bags. The New York City fee had also been opposed by some in the State Assembly, which has been dominated by Democrats, who worried that the fee would act as a regressive tax on poor consumers.As outlined, however, the plan to allow counties to avoid fees on paper bags would seemingly address those concerns. But that provision also left some environmental advocates disappointed; they argue that by not mandating a paper-bag fee, many people will simply use paper bags instead of reusable bags.Peter Iwanowicz, the executive director of Environmental Advocates of New York, said the provision to make paper-bag fees optional made the proposed plan “a weak response to the scourge of disposable bags.”“New York had a chance to show real leadership and came up short,” he said.The agreement was also being criticized by business and trade groups, including the Food Industry Alliance of New York State, which represents grocery stores, a major target of such bans and fees.Mike Durant, the group’s president, said the proposed law would “have a drastic impact on retailers,” and predicted confusion because of the opt-in provision. Mr. Durant also criticized the allocation of paper-bag fee revenue to the environmental and bag funds.“The failure to give even a portion of the 5-cent fee back to the stores, makes this an untenable mandate for many of our members who operate within finite profit margins,” said Mr. Durant. He added, “We are disappointed that the Legislature did not consider this alternative and failed to hear the concerns of the business community.”Small business groups also expressed concern. “Every mandated cost increase adds up,” said Greg Biryla, the New York director of National Federation of Independent Business. “Independent businesses are simply not able to absorb and adjust to new mandated costs the same as their big-box competitors.”Though such laws have been the subject of lawsuits in the past, several cities and other localities have imposed fees on single-use carryout bags, including Suffolk County, where such a plan led to a sharp reduction in their use.Such a disincentive is also the goal of the state plan, said Mr. Kaminsky, whose hometown, Long Beach, N.Y., has such a program.“I think we’ll look back in a few years,” he said. “And people will wonder why we didn’t do this sooner.”Follow Jesse McKinley on Twitter: @jessemckinley AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersRIGA — Latvia's government has suspended Riga mayor Nils Usakovs, who is also the opposition's main candidate in next month's European Parliament elections, on suspicion of misusing more than $20 million of public funds.Usakovs, the leader of the pro-Russian Harmony party, denied any wrongdoing and said he would appeal."This is absolutely a pure, clear political decision," Usakovs told reporters. The Environmental Protection Ministry, which oversees Latvia's local authorities, said that, as mayor, Usakovs had failed in his duty ensure public funds were properly spent, including 18.4 million euros ($20.66 million) related to the municipality's public transport authority. "The decision is about good governance in the public sector," Environmental Protection Minister Juris Puce told reporters.In December last year, Latvia's anti-corruption agency, KNAB, detained seven people on suspicion of corruption at Riga's traffic authority over the purchase of new trams, trolleybuses and buses. At the end of January, KNAB agents also searched Usakovs' office and home in connection with the procurement deal.Usakovs told reporters on Friday he had not been notified by KNAB that he was suspected of any crime.Usakovs is the first mayor of Riga of Russian descent. He has tried to rebrand Harmony as a Western-style Social Democratic Party, toning down the links to Russia and focusing on issues as education and social inequality.AdvertisementSupported byBy Manuela Andreoni and Shasta DarlingtonBRUMADINHO, Brazil — One woman searching for her husband collapsed on the floor. Another clutched a photo of her missing daughter and a third shouted at volunteers: “To you, he is just someone you can substitute. But he is my husband, the father of my daughter!”Scenes of desperation played out at a local school on Saturday in the Brazilian town of Brumadinho where hundreds of people waited as rescue workers dug through mud and sludge searching for survivors a day after a mining dam collapse in southeastern Brazil left at least 34 dead and almost 300 missing.More than 24 hours after one of the deadliest mining accidents in Brazil’s history, official information was scarce. The Civil Defense office said 199 people had been rescued by emergency workers, but only 23 of their names were tacked on the walls of the makeshift crisis center.“I’m anxious, despaired, because there is no news,” said Lucilene Ferreira, 37, who was looking for her husband Emerson José. “Sometimes, I think everything will be all right. And sometimes, I think the worst.”The dam at an open-pit mining complex is owned by the Brazilian iron ore mining company Vale. The disaster in Brumadinho comes just over three years after a dam burst in the city of Mariana, 75 miles away, resulting in 19 deaths. That dam was jointly owned by Vale and the Anglo-Australian mining company BHP Billiton and the Mariana rupture was one of the worst environmental disasters in Brazilian history.The current calamity is the first major crisis for the administration of President Jair Bolsonaro, a far-right leader who promised to pare back enforcement of environmental regulations and to open up protected areas to the mining industry. Mr. Bolsonaro, who was sworn in on Jan. 1, flew over the disaster zone on Saturday, deployed troops to assist with the rescue effort and pledged to take swift action to help the victims.As rescue workers sifted through a sea of sludge, members of this community said they felt helpless.“We are here just literally hugging people,” said Paula de Deus, a public defender volunteering at the school, adding there was little in the way of information that they could offer.The dam ruptured shortly after midday on Friday, burying nearby homes and a company cafeteria in a torrent of sludge. Hopes that more survivors would be found were fading fast on Saturday.At a nearby soccer field, helicopters rushed in and out.“Every hour that passes makes it harder,” said Maj. Flávio Santiago of the regional Civil Defense office, which was leading the rescue efforts. He added that firefighters were still working at places “where there could be nooks where people are trapped under structures.”Even before the death toll began to rise, the level of devastation and staggering number of missing people led officials to warn the public to prepare for the worst.“We now know that the chance of having survivors is minimal and we will probably be rescuing bodies,” said Romeu Zema, governor of the state of Minas Gerais.Brazilian television broadcast contrasting images of hope and despair on Saturday, with one video showing three men alive on a vehicle submerged in mud, flagging down a helicopter. Other news reports told of a Vale company bus buried in a river of mud, killing the workers inside.According to Civil Defense, 296 people were confirmed missing when search and rescue efforts were temporarily suspended for the night. Vale published a constantly updating list of employees and contractors it had been unable to contact on its website. But the site did not appear to be accessible on Saturday.Mr. Bolsonaro, who met with state officials after surveying the area from the air, said he was shaken by the devastation.“Hard to stand in front of this whole scenario and not get emotional,” he said on Twitter. “We will do what we can to attend to victims, minimize damages, investigate the facts, demand justice and prevent new tragedies like Mariana and Brumadinho, for the good of Brazilians and the environment.”On the campaign trail, Mr. Bolsonaro made a mockery of environmental safeguards and regulations, calling for an end to the “industry” of environmental fines and vowing to open up protected lands — including indigenous territories — to mining concessions.His minister of the environment, Ricardo Salles, came under fire when he was the environment secretary for the state of São Paulo after he presented a proposal making it easier for companies to meet guidelines certifying they are acting in an environmentally responsible manner.At a news conference on Friday, Vale chief executive Fabio Schvartsman said he feared there would be many victims, most of them miners.“The damage from an environmental point of view is less” than the Mariana disaster, he said. “But the human tragedy will be much greater.”Mr. Schvartsman said the Brumadinho mine had been inactive for three years and had passed an independent safety and environmental inspection as recently as December, 2018.But a representative from Ibama, the federal environmental protection agency, warned at the time that these dams don’t represent zero risk and any negligence on the part of those conducting risk management, and they rupture, according to local media.On Saturday, two regional judges ordered Vale to freeze a total of 6 billion reais, about $1.6 billion, to be set aside to pay damages caused by the Brumadinho dam collapse. Environmental groups and activists accused Vale of repeating the errors that had led to the disaster at the Mariana dam.After touring the zone and meeting with devastated families, Brazil’s attorney general, Raquel Dodge, announced the creation of a task force of prosecutors to investigate the cause of the disaster and potential risks at the nearly 700 mining dams in the state of Minas Gerais.Some said the latest spill underscored a lack of appropriate regulation.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBERLIN — H&M will trial sales of second-hand and vintage clothes as it seeks to tap into consumers' growing concerns about the environmental cost of fast fashion, its head of sustainability said on Friday.Anna Gedda told Reuters H&M would launch a pilot in Sweden for online sales of second-hand garments on the site of its & Other Stories brand, with the aim of extending the scheme to other markets and brands in years to come."It comes back to the whole circular vision ... it just makes great sense to look into this business," she said on the sidelines of an event in Berlin on the future of fashion."We see this as a growing part of the industry, with great opportunities both for consumers and not least for the environmental impact, and how we can drastically reduce that by extending the life of the products." Awareness of the damage done by the rapid growth of the fast fashion sector, exemplified by the likes of Primark (part of ABF) and Zara who sell clothes so cheaply consumers can wear them for just one night out, has grown over the past year.BBC documentary "Fashion’s Dirty Secrets" last year described fashion as among the world's most polluting industries.So far there have been few signs of falling demand for fast fashion, yet the second-hand market for apparel is expected to double in the next five years to $51 billion, according to data gathered for online thrift store ThredUp, with the resale market for exclusive products driving much of the growth.H&M tried selling second-hand clothes in the past but abandoned the project. Vintage H&M garments are available for sale on fashion marketplaces run by the likes of ASOS and eBay."Now is a whole different moment with awareness of sustainability," Gedda said.H&M is conducting the pilot with the Swedish second-hand platform Sellpy, a start-up that H&M has been investing in, which is creating a section for & Other Stories "pre-loved" garments on its site. H&M, the world's biggest clothing retailer after Zara-owner Inditex, has seen its profits shrink and stocks pile up in recent years as it failed to react quickly enough to demand swings and a boom in e-commerce.However, it reported a much smaller than expected fall in quarterly profit last week, as it sold more products at full price and margins held up, in a first sign that a turnaround strategy is producing results.H&M has tried to improve its environmental credentials in recent years, using more organic cotton and encouraging customers to recycle their clothing as well as offering repair services in some countries.As customers seek more transparency about supply chains, Gedda said H&M is about to launch a system that will allow shoppers to see which factory produced each garment and more details on the fabric.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBRASILIA — The American Museum of Natural History said on Friday that it is "concerned" an event booked to be held at the New York museum will honor far-right Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro as a "person of the year," a move that has triggered online outrage.The Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce is holding its annual Person of the Year gala at the museum on May 14, during which it will give the award to Bolsonaro, according to the chamber's website. The award is typically given to one Brazilian and one American each year, although this year's American recipient is not listed.Bolsonaro, who styled his campaign for office last year after that of U.S. President Donald Trump, has considered pulling out of the Paris Agreement on climate change and railed against what he sees as indiscriminate fines for environmental crimes. He continues to support mining and other development in the Amazon rainforest region, considered by most scientists as the world's biggest natural defense against climate change."The external, private event at which the current President of Brazil is to be honored was booked at the Museum before the honoree was secured," the museum said on its official Twitter account. "We are deeply concerned, and we are exploring our options." Bolsonaro's office and the Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The responses to the museum's tweet included hundreds of messages urging that the event be canceled, with people identifying themselves as activists and scholars saying it was inappropriate that Bolsonaro be honored at an institution of science because of his views. "It certainly is cause for outrage," Philip Fearnside, an American professor at Brazil's National Institute of Amazonian Research and one of the most cited experts on the jungle, said in a telephone interview.AdvertisementSupported byBy Timothy WilliamsUpdated, Feb. 27, 2019: Toledo voters on Tuesday approved a ballot question asking whether Lake Erie should be given rights normally associated with a person. The measure got 61 percent of the votes. On Wednesday, a federal lawsuit was filed by a farmer challenging the measure’s constitutionality.The failing health of Lake Erie, the world’s 11th largest lake, is at the heart of one of the most unusual questions to appear on an American ballot: Should a body of water be given rights normally associated with those granted to a person?Voters in Toledo, Ohio, will be asked this month to decide whether Lake Erie, which supports the economies of four states, one Canadian province and the cities of Toledo, Cleveland and Buffalo, has the legal right “to exist, flourish, and naturally evolve.”The peculiar ballot question comes amid a string of environmental calamities at the lake — poisonous algal blooms in summer, runoff containing fertilizer and animal manure, and a constant threat from invasive fish. But this special election is not merely symbolic. It is legal strategy: If the lake gets legal rights, the theory goes, people can sue polluters on its behalf.The proposed Lake Erie Bill of Rights is part of a growing number of efforts to carve out legal status for elements of nature, including rivers, forests, mountains and even wild rice. The efforts, which began decades ago but have gathered momentum in recent years, seek to show that existing laws are insufficient to protect nature against environmental harm. Under current law, lakes and deserts do not have legal standing, so people cannot sue on their behalf.In Toledo, residents and elected officials say they believe the initiative has a good chance of being approved, but there is a catch: The measure’s own backers acknowledge that it is likely to be challenged in court as having little or no legal footing, and that it could ultimately be invalidated as reaching beyond the scope of city law.The initiative’s main opponents are the owners of area farms, where much of the agricultural runoff that feeds the lake’s toxic algae originates. Farmers say that if the measure passes thousands of small farms could be sued for damages for polluting the lake and driven out of business.Thomas Linzey, executive director of the Community Environmental Legal Defense Fund, a nonprofit group based in Pennsylvania that helped write the measure, said existing environmental laws were inadequate.The intent of the initiative, Mr. Linzey said, is twofold — to send a warning that the community is fed up with a lack of state and federal action to protect Lake Erie, and to force the courts to recognize that ecosystems like the lake “possess independent rights to survive and be healthy.”In other words, that rivers have a right to flow, forests have a right to thrive and lakes have a right to be clean.Even if that concept never becomes the law of the land, the group says that its efforts are meant to make it clear that places like Toledo will oppose what they see as environmental degradation, sending an unsubtle message that certain companies might want to look elsewhere to do business.The broader idea, environmentalists say, is a rethinking of nature and an individual’s place in it.“There’s no precedent for any of this,” Mr. Linzey said. “It is almost a new consciousness — that a community is not just Homo sapiens.”As the Feb. 26 Election Day approaches, some Toledo residents say their dependence on Lake Erie has made the question of the lake’s rights more than theoretical.In 2014, the city went without drinking water for three days when the lake became so fouled by phosphorus runoff from upstream farms that household water was fit only for flushing toilets.Stores closed. Hospitals accepted only the most seriously ill patients. Restaurants were empty. And some 500,000 people depended on bottled water in the middle of a brutally hot August.“The city of Toledo shut down,” said Crystal Jankowski, 31, who was in a hospital delivering her daughter during the water crisis. “They were having to cancel surgeries because they couldn’t sterilize equipment.”While the idea of nature having rights has been around for centuries, environmental advocates point to a 1972 United States Supreme Court decision, Sierra Club v. Morton, as providing much of the impetus for current efforts.In that case, the court ultimately rejected the notion of nature’s rights, but Justice William O. Douglas wrote in a dissent that “contemporary public concern for protecting nature’s ecological equilibrium should lead to the conferral of standing upon environmental objects to sue for their own preservation.”The recent push started in earnest about 15 years ago, when Mr. Linzey’s group began working with towns and cities to protect local natural resources. The concept has won support in dozens of municipalities — from cities with long histories of environmental activism to unexpected places.Tamaqua Borough, Pa., in the center of the state’s historic coal-mining region, was the first place in the nation to approve a rights-of-nature ordinance in 2006 after it banned companies from dumping dredged minerals and sewage sludge into open pit mines.The bill approved by the borough council included language that said corporations could not “interfere with the existence and flourishing of natural communities or ecosystems, or to cause damage” to them within the township.Four years later, Pittsburgh approved a rights-of-nature ordinance that prohibited fracking in city limits.Santa Monica, Calif., has since passed an ordinance that requires the city to “recognize the rights of people, natural communities and ecosystems to exist, regenerate and flourish.”And earlier this year, the White Earth Band of Ojibwe in Minnesota announced that it had granted wild rice its own legal rights, including “the right to pure water.”The Community Environmental Legal Defense Fund, which has been involved in each of the efforts, said similar laws were now on the books in municipalities in Maine, Maryland, New Hampshire, New Mexico, New York, Ohio and Virginia.In Toledo, much of Lake Erie is frozen over this winter. But nearly every summer for the last several years, water runoff from large farms flowed into the lake and produced a slick green coating of toxic algae so expansive that it could be seen from space.The 2014 water crisis failed to spur a state or federal crackdown on large farms in the Maumee River basin, where fertilizers used for crops contain phosphorus, which is washed into streams and eventually the river during rainstorms.Once in the lake, the phosphorus feeds the algae, which produces microcystin, a toxin that causes diarrhea, vomiting and liver-function problems in humans and can kill small animals — including dogs — that ingest it.Yvonne Lesicko, vice president for public policy at the Ohio Farm Bureau, acknowledged that farms were the primary culprit, but also pointed to other sources of harmful runoff like lawns, septic systems and golf courses.Ms. Lesicko said farmers have sought to limit the amount of runoff, but estimated that measures like using less fertilizer and building berms may take as long as 15 or 20 years to produce results.The ballot initiative, she said, was not a reasoned response to a complex problem.“We care very much about the lake,” Ms. Lesicko said. “But this is not a solution. In fact, it is counterproductive. This is going to lead to lots of lawsuits and stress.”The issue has also put Toledo’s elected officials in an unenviable position. They say that if they oppose the measure, they fear they will appear to support polluting the lake.But backing the initiative could be worse, some reason, because the measure could cost the city tens of thousands of dollars to defend in court with no guarantee that it will survive legal review. Toledo, still heavily reliant on the automobile industry, has struggled economically in recent years.“I think everybody is frustrated,” said Nick Komives, a City Council member, who said he supported a clean lake, but opposed the measure because it would most likely drain city finances. “The initiative is a powerful tactic. And for me, coming from an activist background, it is important to send messages. But this is probably unconstitutional.”China DailyAdvertisementShareCampaign sees hotels, guesthouses, restaurants shuttered.As the Lunar New Year travel rush swept across the country, throngs of tourists headed to the ancient city of Dali in Yunnan province to enjoy stunning views of Erhai Lake and other scenic areas.Those among them who had visited Dali years ago discovered that the waters of the ear-shaped lake have now become much clearer, and more waterfowl could be seen.However, they also found it harder to book rooms with views of the lake as many guesthouses, hotels and restaurants have been closed as part of Dali’s campaign to curb pollution and improve the environment of Erhai, known as “mother lake” by locals.Zheng Cheng, who traveled from Chengdu, capital of neighboring Sichuan province, said he was making his third holiday trip to Dali.“Compared with my first visit in 2013, Erhai Lake looks cleaner and clearer now even though tourists continue to visit,” Zheng said, adding that local environmental protection efforts made at the lake appear to have paid off.Erhai Lake, which is 6,470 feet above sea level, is one of the largest highland lakes in Yunnan, covering about 100 square miles. It stretches about 26 miles from north to south and is about 5.6 miles at its widest stretch. The lake provides a major source of water to 620,000 residents in Dali.In March 2017, the local government issued a protective management order, the Seven Major Actions, to protect the lakeside environment. Initiatives included demolishing illegal constructions around the lake, and efforts to reduce water pollution.The campaign was launched as the lake’s water quality had worsened in recent years. Three large outbreaks of toxic blue-green algae occurred in the lake in 1996, 2003 and 2013. The number of pollutants in the lake in 2016 had increased by 50 percent compared with 2004, according to the local environmental protection authority.Li Aichun, a taxi driver who lives in a village near the lake, said he used to swim in it with his brothers in childhood, when the waters were so clear that fish and weeds on the bottom could be seen from the surface, and the water could be drunk. However, the situation today had changed due to increasing pollution, the 43-year-old said.The reduction in water quality alarmed both the central and local governments. In January 2015, during an inspection tour of Yunnan, President Xi Jinping, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, visited a village near the lake and called on residents and the local government to protect it, emphasizing that this is a long-term task.During his tour, Xi had a photo taken with local officials beside the lake and said he hoped that the water quality could be improved when he made his next trip.Xi’s instructions on environmental protection of the lake came after nationwide efforts were stepped up in 2012 to build an “ecological civilization” to ensure that by 2035 there would be a fundamental improvement in the quality of the environment, and the goal of building a Beautiful China would be basically attained.Zhang Yong, who was deputy head of Dali city government in charge of environmental protection in 2015, said, “General Secretary Xi told us that Yunnan should take the lead in building an ecological civilization.”Xi’s comments that “lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets” as well as “ensuring harmony between humans and nature” have become a guiding principle for the environmental management of Erhai Lake, Zhang said.Environmental experts said pollution of the lake can be partly attributed to a change in the ecology of the organisms in the water, but mostly stems from excessive exploitation by the tourism and real estate industries.Wang Shengrui, a member of the Erhai Lake Protection Expert Committee and professor at Beijing Normal University’s College of Water Sciences, was quoted by Global Times as saying the abundance of sunlight and relatively high temperatures mean that the lake is especially susceptible to toxic blue-green algae blooms.Known as the Pearl of the Plateau for its beautiful scenery that can be viewed all year, Erhai Lake is a must-see attraction for tourists of all ages and backgrounds.Since 2010, many middle-income earners, attracted by the lake’s scenery, have quit their jobs in big cities, moved to Dali and entered the guesthouse business by leasing lakeside land from local farmers and building their own premises.In recent years the lake’s once sleepy waterside towns and villages have turned into teeming tourist spots, with every building purporting to boast lakeside views being transformed into a guesthouse, a restaurant－or both.In particular, a few years ago Shuanglang was a small town where it was hard to find accommodations and anything to eat after dark. Now, it has been become Yunnan’s new “must-see” destination, boasting more than 600 guesthouses and restaurants in a 1-sq-km area (about 0.4 square mile).While the villagers cashed in, it was mostly outsiders who brought the capital and the tourist expertise to open nearly 2,000 lakeside hotels, guesthouses and restaurants. But they often started operating without a complete set of the permits required.With the tourism industry expanding rapidly in the city, wastewater and garbage were often found being disposed of directly into the lake due to insufficient or dilapidated facilities on the shore.According to an official estimate, the maximum population the lakeside area can support is 500,000, but each of the years from 2014 to 2016, the number of tourists was 9.18 million, 10.3 million and 15 million.The number of tourists traveling to Dali during this year’s seven-day Lunar New Year holiday, which ended on Feb. 10, is 1.8 million, whilethe figure for last year was 1.72 million.Yang Fuquan, a senior researcher at the Yunnan Academy of Social Sciences, said the discharges from the massive hotels and other buildings were a major source of pollution in Erhai Lake.In 2017, all the 2,400-plus lakeside hotels, guesthouses and restaurants were told by the government to close. They are barred from reopening until the authorities confirm they have all the required permits, and construction of a sewage pipeline running around the lake is completed.However, the long-existing pollution problems motivated both the Dali and Yunnan governments to take tough punitive action against violators, and pushed them to escalate control measures.Since October, 1,806 buildings, including some 540 guesthouses, inside the Erhai Lake protection zone, which lies within 16 yards of the shoreline, have been demolished.Locals have mixed feelings about the crackdown on regulatory violators under the strictest-ever environmental management of the lake by the local government.Tourist guide Liu Ge, a native of Dali, said he understands and supports the government’s efforts in protecting the lakeside environment.“After all, Erhai Lake is Dali’s greatest wealth,” Liu said, “If it’s polluted, the tourism industry will be undermined. We should look at things in the long term.”The lake is also the major source of water for 620,000 residents in the city and should be well protected, he added.However, Chen Xiaoxue, who worked as a manager for a lakeside guesthouse before the environmental campaign was launched, said she lost her job due to the demolition of the premises, where she worked for two years.Her boss, the guesthouse owner, lost an investment of at least $1 million in the operation, she said, adding that many such operators are now heavily in debt.The Dali government has hired a property evaluation company and offered compensation to each guesthouse operator according to the size of the premises. But some of them believe the money cannot make up for their losses.Zhang, who led the environmental campaign, said “great pains” are being felt from the rapid economic and social development in Dali city, but they are for the benefit of future generations. Erhai Lake must be protected despite the great pressure now being felt.Zhang said the problems arising from environmental management will be addressed properly, adding that the move is aimed at the sustainable development of tourism, the city’s main industry.According to the Dali government, the city’s income from tourism was 26.4 billion yuan ($3.9 billion) in 2017, about 70 percent of its annual G.D.P.During a two-day national conference on environmental protection in May, President Xi said in a long speech that coordination between economic and social development and ecological civilization must be advanced.The tone-setting speech was published on Feb. 1 in Qiushi Journal, the most influential and authoritative magazine devoted to the CPC Central Committee’s policymaking and theoretical studies.Xi highlighted the fundamental importance of building an ecological civilization for the nation’s sustainable development.With the economy transitioning from high-speed growth to high-quality development, the building of ecological civilization has entered a critical period－which requires more quality environmental goods to meet people’s ever-growing demands for a beautiful environment at a time when China is capable of addressing prominent ecological and environmental issues, Xi said.Noting that a sound ecological system is the “most inclusive benefit” to people’s well-being, Xi said an action plan for the prevention and control of water pollution must be advanced to ensure the safety of drinking water.He said that in pushing forward ecological civilization, the principle must be upheld that mountains, rivers, forests, farmland, lakes and grasslands are a life community.Zhang said that after Xi’s tour of Erhai Lake, the Dali government carried out a series of initiatives to improve the water quality in accordance with the president’s instructions.Strict controls have been implemented within the core area. No new buildings are allowed, apart from environmental and public facilities, and guesthouses and restaurants can only reopen once all permits are in place, he added.In addition, infrastructure covering sewage disposal, garbage collection and other pollution control facilities has been built, with total investment of 5.73 billion yuan, Zhang said.Agriculture in Dali, a major contributor to contamination of Erhai Lake through the excessive use of fertilizer and pesticides, has not been spared from intervention.The immediate lakeside vicinity has been marked as off-limits to any form of agriculture, while breeding farms have been prohibited in the wider area, with the goal of controlling and reducing animal rearing.The lakeside’s surroundings will be turned into an environmentally friendly agricultural area with the focus on reducing water usage, pollution and land use, Zhang said, adding that farmers are being encouraged to use organic fertilizer.While stepping up pollution control measures, the Dali government has also promoted raising awareness of environmental protection among locals.Yang Lian, a 76-year-old farmer from Gusheng village, Wanqiao township, near Erhai Lake, said it is the everybody’s responsibility to protect the environment.“We can develop tourism in the village so that both the environment and people’s lives can be improved,” Yang said.According to the provincial environmental monitoring authority, the quality of water in Erhai Lake was much better last year. There were seven months when the quality rose to Grade II－the second-highest－which means the water can be drunk after treatment. It was the first time the lake had achieved this level since 2015.Yang said: “If Erhai is clean, Dali is prosperous. We believe that.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Brad PlumerWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — The decision by New York State to ban single-use plastic bags from retail stores makes it a good time to revisit everyone’s favorite environmental quandary: paper or plastic?Unfortunately, there’s not a simple answer on whether paper or plastic bags are better for the environment. They both have downsides, but there are a few broad lessons to keep in mind when you’re hitting the grocery store.Plastic bags, which often take centuries to decompose, can create a dreadful waste problem even though they’re far from the largest source of plastic waste in America — about 12 percent of the total. On the other hand, paper bags typically require more energy and greenhouse gas emissions to produce, which isn’t great from a global warming standpoint. Reusable bags can be a decent compromise, provided you hold onto them and use them often. Ultimately, though, what you put inside the bag, particularly your food choices, will most likely matter a lot more for the environment than what type of bag you use.American shoppers use more than 100 billion lightweight polyethylene plastic bags each year, and only a small portion are ever recycled. Most recycling centers can’t deal with them — they just clog up the machinery — and so the majority of plastic bags end up in landfills, where they can take up to 1,000 years to degrade.To be fair, a plastic bag doesn’t cause too much harm sitting in a landfill. The bigger problem arises when people don’t dispose of their bags properly, and the plastic ends up fluttering around in the wild, clogging up waterways and threatening wildlife. San Jose, Calif., for instance, found that plastic bags made up about 12 percent of the litter in its creeks before implementing a local bag ban in 2012. And, just last week, a dead sperm whale washed ashore in Indonesia with two dozen plastic bags in its gut, along with other trash. So, even though plastic bags are only a small fraction of America’s overall plastic trash, they’ve become a highly visible sign of waste.So does that mean paper bags, which degrade more easily, are a better option? Not necessarily. Climate change has become the biggest environmental issue of our time, so it’s worth looking at things from an emissions standpoint. And on that score, paper bags fare worse.Even though paper bags are made from trees, which are, in theory, a renewable resource, it takes significantly more energy to create pulp and manufacture a paper bag than it does to make a single-use plastic bag from oil. Back in 2011, Britain’s Environment Agency conducted a life-cycle assessment of various bag options, looking at every step of the production process. The conclusion? You’d have to reuse a paper bag at least three times before its environmental impact equaled that of a high-density polyethylene plastic bag used only once. And if plastic bags were reused repeatedly, they looked even better.Paper bags can more easily be recycled or even composted, but the British study found that even these actions didn’t make a huge difference in the broader analysis. Unless you’re reusing your paper bags a lot, they look like a poorer option from a global warming standpoint.That same British analysis also looked into reusable options, like heavier, more durable plastic bags or cotton bags. And it found that these are only sustainable options if you use them very frequently.Making a cotton shopping bag is hardly cost-free. Growing cotton requires a fair bit of energy, land, fertilizer and pesticides, which can have all sorts of environmental effects — from greenhouse gas emissions to nitrogen pollution in waterways.The study found that an avid shopper would have to reuse his or her cotton bag 131 times before it had a smaller global warming impact than a lightweight plastic bag used only once. And, depending on the make, more durable plastic bags would have to be used at least 4 to 11 times before they made up for their heftier upfront climate costs.So if you’re going to opt for a reusable bag for environmental reasons, make sure you actually reuse it — often. It never hurts to think about bag choices. But keep in mind that if you’re going to the grocery store, the food you purchase and place in that bag probably has a vastly bigger effect on the environment than whatever you use to haul it home.Our global food system, after all, is responsible for one-quarter of humanity’s planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions — with meat and dairy having a disproportionately large impact. By contrast, packaging makes up only about 5 percent of the food system’s footprint. Compared with, say, the effects of clearing away vast swaths of forest to grow feed or raise livestock, our bags are a much smaller deal.Put another way, a pound of beef bought at the supermarket will have roughly 25 times the global warming impact as the disposable plastic bag it’s carried in. So if you’re looking for ways to slim down your personal carbon footprint, taking a closer look at your dietary choices isn’t a bad place to start.AdvertisementSupported byBy Henry FountainWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.A plan to conduct seismic testing for oil and gas exploration across a large swath of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska has been shelved for this winter, Interior Department officials have said.The announcement signals at least a temporary victory for environmental groups and scientists who oppose the project, in which large trucks and other heavy equipment would crisscross the refuge’s coastal plain along the Arctic Ocean, using acoustic signals to map underground rock formations that may hold oil and gas reserves.Steve Wackowski, the department’s senior adviser for Alaska affairs, made the announcement at a hearing Tuesday in Kaktovik, a village within the refuge.Faith Vander Voort, a department spokeswoman, said the seismic proposal was still pending, and that the company behind it, SAExploration, had asked that the start date be moved to next December.The postponement will have no direct impact on the Interior Department’s plan to open the coastal plain, 1.5 million acres known as the 1002 Area, to oil and gas development. The department, through the Bureau of Land Management, has said it wants to offer leases for sale this year.The coastal plain is thought to overlie formations containing billions of barrels of oil, and the Trump administration has been eager to allow development, part of its push for more commercial activities on federal lands.But the decision means that oil companies that bid on the leases will have to do so without the benefit of new data on potential reserves. The only seismic studies in the refuge were done three decades ago, using less-effective technology. An exploratory well, the only one in the refuge, was drilled around the same time, and its results have remained secret.Opponents of the seismic plan have argued that the work would harm polar bears and other wildlife and leave indelible scars on the delicate tundra in the refuge, a vast, largely unspoiled wilderness in the northeastern part of the state.But the Bureau of Land Management and SAExploration have said that new seismic technology has little permanent impact on the landscape. The company says it is working with federal wildlife officials on steps to be taken to minimize harm to wildlife.The seismic project is a joint venture with two Alaska Native corporations. Officials from SAExploration could not be reached for comment.The Sierra Club — which, with members of the Gwich’in community, Native Alaskans who live near the refuge, had organized a campaign to oppose the seismic work — hailed the decision. “This is a major victory in the fight to protect this special and sacred place,” Michael Brune, the Sierra Club’s executive director, said in a statement. “We will not back down until it is permanently protected.”Democrats have blocked proposals to open the refuge for decades, but in 2017 the Trump administration and Republicans in Congress approved a plan to allow oil and gas development there. A draft environmental impact statement on the leasing plan was issued in December and is expected to be finalized this year, allowing the sales to proceed.Separately, last spring, SAExploration filed its proposal and aimed to have trucks rolling into the refuge by late last year. The work can only be done in winter, when there is sufficient snow cover to allow travel on the tundra.The Bureau of Land Management conducted an environmental assessment of the proposed project — a less rigorous evaluation than an environmental impact statement — and another Interior agency, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, worked with the company on regulating how much disturbance or harm to wildlife would be allowed.All that work has taken longer than expected, however. The assessment and the regulations have not been made public, which means the seismic work could not have begun until mid-March at the earliest. That would have left two months or less for the work before the snow disappeared.The decision not to conduct seismic work this winter was first reported by KTOO Public Media in Alaska.Environmentalists and scientists had criticized the Bureau of Land Management for refraining from a more rigorous appraisal of the potential impact of the work.The critics argued that under the National Environmental Policy Act, the umbrella legislation that governs environmental reviews, the effects of seismic studies on the tundra and wildlife could be enough to warrant a fuller environmental impact statement, especially considering the significance of the refuge.The Bureau of Land Management said there had been previous thorough environmental studies of the refuge. Because the seismic assessment could make use of those, a more rigorous evaluation was not needed, it said.Critics said they were especially concerned about the harm that could be done to the southern Beaufort Sea subpopulation of polar bears, which has been declining in numbers as climate change has reduced sea ice in the region. More of the bears are making winter dens — in which pregnant females give birth to cubs — in snow drifts on the coastal plain.Steven C. Amstrup, chief scientist of the conservation group Polar Bears International, said the risk to the bears was that seismic trucks, which weigh up to 45 tons, could come close to or ride over dens, forcing the bears outside prematurely or even injuring or killing them.The Bureau of Land Management said precautions would be taken to identify and avoid dens, including the use of infrared sensing that can detect the warm bears in their frigid surroundings.But Dr. Amstrup said his research showed that such techniques would not detect all dens. The seismic work, he said, “has the potential of impacting 50 percent of dens in the most important denning area.”SAExploration’s proposal calls for trucks to roll across the tundra in grid lines roughly 200 yards apart, sending acoustic signals deep into the earth to assess the location of any oil or gas deposits.The trucks have rubber caterpillar treads designed to minimize the impact on the fragile landscape. They would be accompanied by two “man camps” holding up to 160 workers each, along with fuel tanks and other equipment for the work.Opponents have said that even with the steps taken to minimize damage, the seismic work could have lasting effects on the fragile landscape, compressing the tundra and potentially altering vegetation types and the flow of water.They point out that there are still signs of the seismic work undertaken in the area in the mid-1980s. And work by a Fairbanks-based digital mapping expert last summer found evidence of damage by seismic trucks that operated just west of the refuge in April.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLONDON — Polish novelist Olga Tokarczuk could pull off a Booker Prize double.Tokarczuk, who won last year's Man Booker International Prize for "Flights," was announced Tuesday as a 2019 award finalist for "Drive Your Plow Over the Bones of the Dead."Her environmental crime story is among the six books from Europe, South America and the Middle East on the shortlist for the international prize, which rewards fiction in translation.The prize is a counterpart to the Man Booker Prize for English-language novels and is open to books in any language that have been translated into English.Five of the six books up for the award this year have women authors, and all six were translated by women.The contenders include conspiracy-theory saga "The Shape of the Ruins" by Colombian writer Juan Gabriel Vásquez; French writer Annie Ernaux's portrait of France since the 1940s, "The Years"; and "The Pine Islands" by Germany's Marion Poschmann, in which a beard expert suffers a midlife crisis.They are joined by Alia Trabucco Zerán's debut novel "The Remainder," about a group of Chileans reckoning with their country's past, and "Celestial Bodies," a tale of three sisters by Jokha Alharthi from Oman. Alharthi is the first writer from the Gulf to be a finalist for the prize.The winner of the 50,000 pound ($65,000) prize — split between author and translator — will be announced May 21 at a ceremony in London.Six books from Europe, South America and the Middle East are finalists for the Man Booker International Prize for fiction in translation.The contenders announced Tuesday include an environmental crime tale, "Drive Your Plow Over the Bones Of the Dead," by the author of last year's prize- winner, Olga Tokarczuk of Poland.Other finalists include "The Shape of the Ruins" by Colombian writer Juan Gabriel Vásquez; French writer Annie Ernaux's "The Years"; and "The Pine Islands" by Germany's Marion Poschmann.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKAARST, Germany — IKEA wants to roll out furniture rental to all its main markets in a bid to appeal to its increasingly environmentally conscious and transient customers. The world's biggest furniture group, known for its low-cost disposable items, first said it was looking into leasing its desks, beds and sofas in February. It fleshed out its plans on Wednesday at an event held at its first 'sustainable' store in Kaarst, western Germany, opened in 2017.The rental pilot was driven by a recognition that many consumers change homes more frequently but can't afford new furniture every time they move, Jesper Brodin, chief executive of Ingka Group, which owns most IKEA stores, told Reuters.It is also motivated by environmentalism, with IKEA surveys showing that 90 percent of its customers are ready to change their behavior, even if most don't know how to do that. "You should be able to have a lovely home, and a good conscience, and you should be able to afford it," Brodin said, noting that his three teenage children come home from school expressing fears about a looming environmental catastrophe.Since taking over as CEO in 2017, Brodin has led efforts to overhaul the IKEA business model to respond to climate change, the rise in ecommerce and customers who no longer have the time or the cars to drive to its out-of-town stores.Rental meets IKEA's three main strategic objectives: being more affordable, more convenient and looking after planet, said IKEA finance chief Juvencio Maeztu, noting that young people increasingly expect to rent anything from music to cars.Rent the Runway, which has previously only rented out designer apparel and accessories, said last month it will partner with Williams-Sonoma Inc's West Elm brand to allow subscribers to rent home decor.IKEA, which had global sales of 39 billion euros ($44 billion) last year, will test a range of subscription-based leasing offers in all 30 of its markets by 2020 so products are reused as often as possible before being recycled.REPAIR, RECYCLEIt had already committed to make all its products from renewable and recycled materials by 2030 and also to design all its products to be reused, repaired and recycled. In 2018 it handled 1 million orders for spare parts to repair products.The rental tests will give IKEA insights into the durability of its products that it will feed back to designers, who are already working to make furniture that is easier to dismantle and move, said Pia Heidenmark, IKEA sustainability chief.In the Netherlands, IKEA is offering students the rental of a bed, desk, table and chairs for a monthly fee of up to 30 euros ($33.68), while in Sweden and Switzerland it is looking into providing office furniture to companies. Brodin also highlighted another strategic shift, saying he wants to provide convenient, round-the-clock access to IKEA stores in the company's top 30 cities in the next five years.IKEA has just opened a new store in Greenwich in south-east London and is about to add locations in central Paris and Moscow. It is finalizing plans for many more, Maeztu said."In New York, London, Paris, Berlin, Madrid, Barcelona, Tokyo, Shanghai, Mumbai, we will see more of these mid-sized stores in the future," Maeztu said. "In the next 20 years, more people will live in cities and own fewer cars and share more."AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — Republican U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley is seeking information from the Department of Energy on how it scores applications from small refineries seeking waivers from the nation's biofuel laws, according to letter seen by Reuters.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersJERUSALEM — Israel-based New Era Capital Partners said on Thursday it raised $60 million for a fund that will invest in early-stage technology startups.The group said it raised the money from "leading international corporations and financial institutions" and will invest in technologies in Israel and abroad, with a focus on social and environmental impact.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKAARST, Germany — IKEA wants to roll out furniture rental to all its main markets in a bid to appeal to its increasingly environmentally conscious and transient customers. The world's biggest furniture group, known for its low-cost disposable items, first said it was looking into leasing its desks, beds and sofas in February. It fleshed out its plans on Wednesday at an event held at its first 'sustainable' store in Kaarst, western Germany, opened in 2017.The rental pilot was driven by a recognition that many consumers change homes more frequently but can't afford new furniture every time they move, Jesper Brodin, chief executive of Ingka Group, which owns most IKEA stores, told Reuters.It is also motivated by environmentalism, with IKEA surveys showing that 90 percent of its customers are ready to change their behaviour, even if most don't know how to do that. "You should be able to have a lovely home, and a good conscience, and you should be able to afford it," Brodin said, noting that his three teenage children come home from school expressing fears about a looming environmental catastrophe.Since taking over as CEO in 2017, Brodin has led efforts to overhaul the IKEA business model to respond to climate change, the rise in ecommerce and customers who no longer have the time or the cars to drive to its out-of-town stores.Rental meets IKEA's three main strategic objectives: being more affordable, more convenient and looking after planet, said IKEA finance chief Juvencio Maeztu, noting that young people increasingly expect to rent anything from music to cars.Rent the Runway, which has previously only rented out designer apparel and accessories, said last month it will partner with Williams-Sonoma Inc's West Elm brand to allow subscribers to rent home decor.IKEA, which had global sales of 39 billion euros (33.28 billion pounds) last year, will test a range of subscription-based leasing offers in all 30 of its markets by 2020 so products are reused as often as possible before being recycled.REPAIR, RECYCLEIt had already committed to make all its products from renewable and recycled materials by 2030 and also to design all its products to be reused, repaired and recycled. In 2018 it handled 1 million orders for spare parts to repair products.The rental tests will give IKEA insights into the durability of its products that it will feed back to designers, who are already working to make furniture that is easier to dismantle and move, said Pia Heidenmark, IKEA sustainability chief.In the Netherlands, IKEA is offering students the rental of a bed, desk, table and chairs for a monthly fee of up to 30 euros ($33.68), while in Sweden and Switzerland it is looking into providing office furniture to companies. Brodin also highlighted another strategic shift, saying he wants to provide convenient, round-the-clock access to IKEA stores in the company's top 30 cities in the next five years.IKEA has just opened a new store in Greenwich in south-east London and is about to add locations in central Paris and Moscow. It is finalising plans for many more, Maeztu said."In New York, London, Paris, Berlin, Madrid, Barcelona, Tokyo, Shanghai, Mumbai, we will see more of these mid-sized stores in the future," Maeztu said. "In the next 20 years, more people will live in cities and own fewer cars and share more."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — As Mississippi's governor toured massive flooding in the state, the Trump administration said Wednesday that it is giving another look to a long-dead flood control and drainage project in the Mississippi Delta that had been killed by the George W. Bush administration because of its potential impact on wetlands and wildlife.The project, which the late Sen. John McCain once called "one of the worst projects ever conceived by Congress," had called for huge pumps to be built at the confluence of the Yazoo and Mississippi Rivers in Mississippi. It was rejected by the Bush administration in 2008."Had that veto not occurred, we believe that the flooding, particularly in the Yazoo backwater, would have been much less damaging," said Mississippi Gov. Phil Bryant, after touring the region by helicopter.Opponents say the pumps could worsen flooding downstream.After touring the flooded region, Bryant told journalists that he had spent Monday and Tuesday in Washington, lobbying the administration to override the 2008 EPAs decision to kill the project. On Wednesday, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler confirmed to a Senate Appropriations subcommittee hearing that his agency is now reconsidering that 2008 decision.Communities along the lower Mississippi River have been dealing with flooding for nearly two months. More than 500,000 acres (200,000 hectares) are submerged in the region, including more than 200,000 acres (80,000 hectares) of farmland. Farmers say flooding is harming them financially.The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and local agencies are deploying a complex system of levees, dams, floodgates and floodways to try to contain high water and limit damage along the more than 2,000-mile river.Floodwaters "have placed a tremendous burden on the lives and property of thousands of Mississippians," Sen. Cindy Hyde-Smith, a Mississippi Republican, told Wheeler at Wednesday's hearing.Bryant, who has aligned himself tightly with President Donald Trump, said Wednesday that more than 1,100 homes are affected, although some of those are not flooded, but in areas with roads cut off by flooding. Water is so common in the region that some people build small levees around their houses.Environmentalists say the pumps would be capable of draining more than 200,000 acres (80,000 hectares) of wetlands — an area larger than all five boroughs of New York City.The soggy and frequently flooded lowlands have comparatively few houses but are vital to waterfowl and other wildlife, environmental groups say. The National Wildlife Federation said the pumps would serve primarily "so large landowners can increase agricultural production on marginal lands that have always flooded."Bob Irvin, president of the American Rivers conservation group, said in an email Wednesday that the EPA was moving to revive a "zombie" project."Nothing has changed since the first Bush administration recognized that the Yazoo Pumps project was an environmental disaster and an economic loser," Irvin said.The Bush administration had invoked the Clean Water Act, saying it would cause "unacceptable damage" to valuable resources. At the time, it was one of only about a dozen times the federal water law had been invoked to reject a project outright.The pump project has been heavily pushed by the Delta Council, a farming and business lobbying group that includes many large farmers in the fertile Mississippi Delta. Before retiring from the Senate, Thad Cochran, long a proponent of the project, made a final attempt last year to put language in a spending bill ordering pump construction to begin despite the EPA veto; it failed.Sharkey County Supervisor Bill Newsom, who also manages a cotton gin, is one of many proponents of the pumps. He says farming is the only industry in the region, and says he doesn't want to drain the region's wetlands, just control flooding."We're just simply wanting to have a flood level we can live in," Newsom said last month.AdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Also this week: How our reporters solved a mystery in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. By Ronda Kaysen and Henry FountainWelcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By Ronda KaysenSpring is here, and that means millions of Americans will soon be seeding, fertilizing and mowing their grass.America has a lot of lawns. Add them all together, and they’d cover an area roughly the size of Florida, making grass the most common irrigated plant in the country. And all that grass comes with an environmental cost.To keep weeds at bay, homeowners dumped around 59 million pounds of pesticides onto their residential landscapes in 2012, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. Some of those leach into the waterways, potentially exposing children and pets to harmful chemicals. Grass is thirsty, too. Americans use about 7 billion gallons of water a day, a third of all residential water consumption, to irrigate. Roughly half of that water is wasted because of runoff, evaporation or overwatering. And then there’s the mowing, edging and leaf blowing. According to a study by Quiet Communities, a nonprofit group, that equipment, mostly powered by gas, emitted 26.7 million tons of pollutants into the atmosphere in 2011. Those emissions contribute to climate change. Despite the time and resources needed to maintain a tidy lawn, they provide no habitat for bees, butterflies or the birds that feed on the insects.“Lawns are a significant environmental problem,” said David Mizejewski, a naturalist with the National Wildlife Federation. “We put in these lawns, and we basically turned these important habitats into dead zones.” The good news is: You don’t necessarily have to let your yard go wild, or dig the whole thing up to plant rocks, in order to lower your environmental impact. You can reduce your lawn by chipping away one weekend and one season a time, dedicating a few of the hours you might normally spend caring for your lawn to planting native grasses, shrubs, trees, flowers and food. Consider replacing some of that needy grass with a low-maintenance ground cover like clover, creeping thyme, mint or strawberry. You can also plant a tree and surround it with a bed of mulch. If you already have trees on your property, you could put in shade-loving plants — like hostas, ferns, impatiens and primrose — below the canopy. Before you head to the nursery to buy any new grass, plant, shrub or tree, try to choose something that’s native to your area and not an invasive species. If you’re not sure, punch your ZIP code into the Native Plant Finder, which is managed by the National Wildlife Federation. Another option for reducing lawn area is to start a flower bed or a kitchen garden. The beauty of these plots is that they can start small and expand a bit each season. Plus, they look great, you can get fresh food and herbs, and they’ll support butterflies, bees and birds. Whatever you plant, avoid pesticides and aerate the soil instead. Fertilize grass with leaf clippings and accept that you may need to coexist with dandelions. By Henry FountainIt began with an intriguing lead. It ended with the answer to an Arctic mystery.My Times colleague Steve Eder and I had written an article in December about the Trump administration’s efforts to allow oil and gas development in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska. We’d mentioned an exploratory well that had been drilled in the refuge three decades ago.The well was the only one ever drilled there and had obtained mythic status in the state. Designated KIC-1, it held the best clues as to whether there was oil in the refuge, but the results had been kept secret all these years. When we were in Anchorage reporting the story, it seemed that everyone there was talking about it.We decided to do some digging. (This comes naturally to Steve, an investigative reporter who can think of few better ways to spend a day than poring over old documents for a story. I’m more comfortable reading scientific papers.)The trail led fairly quickly to a 1987 court case — in Cleveland, of all places. A friendly court clerk there scanned hundreds of pages of microfilmed documents for us to read.We also reached out to dozens of people involved in the case. One of the key characters in the story — Sidney Silverman, a lawyer, had confirmed to us that he had deposed an oil company executive who told him about the well. But Mr. Silverman, now 86, couldn’t remember the name of the executive.Steve found the name buried deep inside one of the court documents, a mundane list of Mr. Silverman’s expenses. (Proof that, as the historian Robert Caro has noted, it’s important to “turn every page” when doing research.)That was one of many “ah ha!” moments. Another was when we found a general reference to the well results in another court document.There were plenty of dead ends and plenty of dead people, given that we were investigating events from 32 years ago. When we did reach people who had been involved in the case, often their first reaction was something like, “You want me to remember something from 1987?”But as our reporting proceeded, we got more confirmation of our initial findings. The story got stronger and stronger. In the end, Steve and I thought we’d really nailed it. And judging by what we’ve heard from Alaska, everybody there is still talking about the well — but also about our story.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa FriedmanWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency announced on Friday new limits on a lethal chemical found in paint stripping products that has been linked to more than 50 deaths since the 1980s.Chemical safety activists called the plan a significant scaling-back of the ban that the Obama administration had proposed. In 2017 the Obama administration concluded the chemical, methylene chloride, represented an “unreasonable risk” and moved to ban it from commercial as well as consumer use.Andrew Wheeler, the E.P.A. administrator, on Friday signed a rule that prohibits the manufacture and use of consumer products containing methylene chloride, but did not ban it for commercial use. The agency is also considering a proposal for a certification and training program for workers who use the chemical commercially.“Families have lost loved ones in tragic and heartbreaking circumstances,” said Alexandra Dunn, the E.P.A. assistant administrator for chemical safety. “We answered the call for many affected families to ensure that no other family experience the death of someone close to them from this chemical.”Stores will have 180 days to stop selling products containing methylene chloride. After that, violators will face fines or possible imprisonment.Ms. Dunn said the E.P.A. expected retailers to comply “much more quickly.” So far, at least 13 retailers have announced that they have removed or will remove from their shelves paint stripping products that contain the chemical.Relatives of three men who died from exposure after working with paint strippers containing methylene chloride met in early 2018 with Scott Pruitt, then the administrator of the E.P.A. Among them was Brian Wynne, the brother of Drew Wynne, who died in 2017 after stripping paint from the floor of his coffee company in Charleston, S.C. Another was Wendy Hartley of Nashville, Tenn., whose son Kevin died at age 21 after refinishing a bathtub for the family’s business. Ms. Hartley said on Friday that she had declined to meet with E.P.A. officials ahead of the agency’s announcement because the ruling does not ban the chemical outright. “I am deeply disappointed that the E.P.A. has watered down the ban on methylene chloride as it was originally proposed,” she said in a text message. “Workers like my son Kevin who use MC are left unprotected.” Lindsay McCormick, project manager for chemicals and health at the Environmental Defense Fund, an environmental group, said while the chemical is a threat to people who use paint strippers in their homes, the majority of deaths associated with methylene chloride have been work-related. She called the E.P.A. decision “a step in the right direction” but added, “I don’t want to lose sight of the fact that this is only addressing a portion of the population, and we really need to protect all Americans.”E.P.A. officials did not say why the agency had opted against a ban, but suggested that one could still be imposed based on the comments the agency receives about its plan to create a certification program. Faye Graul, executive director for the Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance, an industry group, said in a statement she was disappointed with the ban on consumer uses of the substance and said the organization had worked with the Consumer Product Safety Commission to improve labeling. “We hope that alternative products offered to consumers, most of which are flammable, do not result in greater fire risk,” she said.For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.AdvertisementSupported byBy Alina TugendSaving the planet.It’s not just the subject of passionate political debate.It’s at the heart of a growing number of museum exhibitions this year, including the works of old masters and exhibits built with high-tech innovations, designed to inspire artistic appreciation and a desire to respond to environmental challenges.Among the shows: The much-anticipated “Hudson Rising” at the New-York Historical Society; “Nature’s Nation: American Art and Environment,” in Salem, Mass., which looks at 300 years of American art through an environmental lens; “Documenting Change: Our Climate (Past, Present and Future)” in Boulder, Colo. And more.“There’s a crescendo of interest in both art that is itself about the environment and art that is self-consciously environmental, and I think that’s entirely understandable and good, because it draws attention to these dire situations we’re facing,” said Karl Kusserow curator of American Art at the Princeton University Art Museum.Dr. Kusserow is a co-curator of “Nature’s Nation: American Art and Environment,” which includes paintings, artifacts, sculpture, prints, photographs and decorative art. It started at the Princeton University Art Museum and is now showing at the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem until May 5. It will end at the Crystal Bridges Museum of American Art in Bentonville, Ark., from May 25 to Sept. 9.“The impetus grew out of my concern for climate change, and my recognition and realization that I could bridge my concerns as a citizen with my work as a scholar,” said Dr. Kusserow, who spent seven years developing the show with Alan Braddock, associate professor of Art History and American Studies at the College of William & Mary.The goal of the exhibition, he said, is to view famous and lesser-known art through ecological glasses: how the environment is represented in images and how humans’ place in the world is depicted.“It asks people to think in new ways about iconic works,” Dr. Kusserow said. For example, the famous 19th-century painting by Albert Bierstadt, “Bridal Veil Falls, Yosemite” — a lush painting of one of the national park’s waterfalls — is hung alongside a work by the artist Valerie Hegarty from 2007, “Fallen Bierstadt,” which shows the same painting askew, burned and ripped.“Bierstadt presents a certain way of understanding nature as beautiful and unpeopled and full of animals and grain and enduring and static, and Hegarty takes that same image and literally dematerializes it,” he said.Another painting — “Prisoners From the Front,” by Winslow Homer — is an image traditionally interpreted as a confrontation between a Union officer and Confederate soldiers. But the surrounding landscape looks barren, and the show focuses on the environmental effects of the Civil War on the land, which included deforestation and the burning of crops. It was a strategy of the North and South and “it really had dire environmental consequences,” Dr. Kusserow said.The New-York Historical Society’s major spring show, “Hudson Rising” (through Aug. 4), intertwines famed works of art, as well as aquariums, political leaflets, music and videos.The show offers one of the most comprehensive exhibits ever on the Hudson River, with the goal of not simply looking at ecological changes, but understanding how the river “became an incubator for environmental activism,” said Marci Reaven, the museum’s vice president for history exhibitions.The exhibition proceeds chronologically and geographically from the 1800s and the building of the Erie Canal through today. It displays the beauty of the Hudson through the museum’s extensive collection of Hudson River School paintings, as well as photographs and tourist memorabilia, such as posters from the 1930s encouraging people to take a day trip on the river. But it also shows the toll that tourism and industry have taken.“All of its uses and passions come into conflict with each other,” Dr. Reaven said. “There is a growing awareness the region may not be able to be all things to all people.”The show highlights activism over the years to save the Hudson.In the early 20th century, organizations such as women’s clubs and preservationist societies protested the rock blasting of the Palisades cliffs overlooking the river from New Jersey and helped create Palisades Amusement Park, which became one of the most visited in the country.In the 1960s and 1970s activists fought, and ultimately defeated, a plan by Con Edison to build a plant on Storm King Mountain on the river’s west bank in New York. Visitors to the exhibition can see a yellow political button with the slogan, “Dig they won’t … Save the Hudson,” and hear the folk singer Pete Seeger’s song “My Dirty Stream,” a mournful ode to the polluted river.The end of the exhibition will be a look toward the future and how to reclaim the Hudson River in response to climate change, showcasing projects already underway, such as reeflike structures, known as “living breakwaters,” that can decrease the impact of waves, and help restore the shoreline.“The idea is to look at what has been resolved and what are the new challenges,” Dr. Reaven said. “What is the river teaching us, how will climate change unfold in the region and how are people preparing?”The University of Colorado Art Museum, using resources at its doorsteps, is showing “Documenting Change: Our Climate (Past, Present and Future), until July 20. It encompasses 70 works of art by 30 artists.It includes pieces by Tali Weinberg, who incorporates climate change data and drought data into the textiles she weaves, and a four-hour video by Peggy Weil, “88 Cores,” which connects images from 88 ice cores from the nearby National Science Foundation Ice Core Facility.The Climate Museum in New York City will hold an exhibition at its temporary home on Governors Island from May 4 through Oct. 31. The museum last year installed 10 solar powered traffic signs that looked like digital highway messages, but issued warnings such as “Climate Change at Work.”From March 16 through June 14, the museum, in partnership with the New York City Department of Education Office of Sustainability, will present “Climate Speaks,” a training program and competition focused on spoken word and poetry related to climate change and social justice. The finalists will appear at the Apollo Theater in Harlem on June 14.The theme of the Cooper Hewitt Design Triennial is “Nature, ”from May 10 to Jan. 20, 2020. It will include 62 projects focused on how designers and artists are collaborating with scientists, engineers, environmentalists and others to “find potential solutions — to make steps to save our planet,” said Caroline Baumann, director of the museum. “And I include the ‘make steps’ because some of these are speculative — they are provoking the viewer.”The show will run simultaneously at the Cooper Hewitt, the Smithsonian Design Museum in New York and at the Cube design museum in Kerkrade, the Netherlands, a first for the Cooper Hewitt, Ms. Baumann said.The show will include a “smell series” by the artist Christina Agapakis, the designer Alexandra Daisy Ginsberg and the olfactory artist Sissel Tolaas that recreates the aromas of extinct flowers through DNA drawn from specimens preserved at the Harvard University Herbaria. There will also be an organic cotton burial suit by the designer Jae Rhim Lee, which contains biodegradable materials that also break down toxins in the human body.And outdoors will be “Tree of 40 Fruit” by the artist Sam Van Aken — a real tree that has apples, pears, plums, peaches, cherries and apricots grafted on it using century-old methods to preserve rare fruit.Although very different, the exhibitions have one thing in common: using a mixture of chronology, geography, materials, ideas and collaborators to express something that can at times seem indescribable.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sam RobertsDouglas M. Costle, who helped draw up the blueprints for the federal Environmental Protection Agency and served as its administrator when it tackled toxic waste sites and fluorocarbons and monitored radioactivity from the Three Mile Island nuclear disaster, died on Jan. 13 at his home in McLean, Va. He was 79.His wife, Elizabeth, said the cause was complications of a stroke.Appointed to head the agency by President Jimmy Carter in 1977, Mr. Costle (pronounced KOSS-tul) recruited 600 scientists and other professionals within two months of taking office at what was already the government’s largest regulatory body. He was instrumental in creating the so-called Superfund to decontaminate toxic waste sites after the Love Canal health crisis near Niagara Falls, N.Y., and oversaw a $400 million agreement with United States Steel to curtail air pollution.At his first news conference, Mr. Costle announced the recall of 135,000 Cadillacs because they had failed to meet minimum standards under the newly minted Clean Air Act.“Clean air is not an aesthetic luxury,” he said when he became E.P.A. administrator. “It is a public health necessity.”Mr. Costle was the administrator when the agency banned aerosol spray fluorocarbon gases in 1978 and when it was assigned the lead role in monitoring the release of radioactivity after the partial meltdown of the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant reactor in Pennsylvania in 1979.In 1978, after extensive studies, he had approved a cooling system for the Seabrook nuclear power plant in New Hampshire, which used seawater, after explaining that his agency’s role was limited to assessing whether water heated by the reactor at the plant would harm fish and plant life.As E.P.A. administrator, a position he held until 1981, Mr. Costle was in the vanguard of the federal government’s efforts, not all of them successful, to define safety metrics for toxic chemicals and metals and enforce limits, while the White House was also weighing the inflationary impact of regulation.He advanced the relatively novel argument that environmental regulation spurred economic development because it preserved resources. He acknowledged, however, that some of the fledgling movement’s early efforts, particularly at the state level, resulted from “an era of improvisation.”“It wasn’t just drafting a document and throwing it out for a policy debate, casting thy bread upon the waters to see how soggy it gets,” he said in an interview for the federal agency’s oral history program in 1996. “We had to make the abstract work.”After Mr. Carter was defeated for re-election in 1980 and Mr. Costle left the agency, he joined an environmental testing company, served as dean of Vermont Law School from 1987 to 1991 and unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for United States senator from Vermont in 1994. He moved to McLean in 2003.In addition to his wife, Elizabeth (Rowe) Costle, he is survived by a daughter, Caroline Costle; a son, Douglas Jr.; and three grandchildren.A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018Douglas Michael Costle was born on July 27, 1939, in Long Beach, Calif., to George and Shirley (Ellinghaus) Costle. His mother was a medical administrator, his father an engineer.He was raised in Washington State, where his appreciation for nature was nurtured during fishing trips with his father to Spirit Lake, near Mount St. Helens.He earned a bachelor’s degree in history from Harvard in 1961, graduated from the University of Chicago Law School in 1964 and worked as a trial lawyer in the Justice Department’s civil rights division under Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy. He also served in the Army Reserve, in military intelligence.After Richard M. Nixon was inaugurated in 1969, Mr. Costle was recruited by a friend to the White House Advisory Council on Executive Organization. He played a major role in conceptualizing the environmental agency, which Nixon created by executive order in December 1970.During his tenure in Washington, Three Mile Island and Love Canal became battle cries for the environmental movement.AdvertisementSupported byWe’re also going to need nuclear, geothermal and fossil-fuel plants that capture and store their emissions.By Jesse Jenkins and Samuel ThernstromDr. Jenkins and Mr. Thernstrom are co-authors of a recent study reviewing pathways to decarbonize electricity systems.Since the early days of the modern environmental movement, activists have embraced solar and wind power. A “small is beautiful” mantra guided a “soft path” to the renewables revolution.That vision inspired an open letter sent last week by hundreds of grass-roots environmental groups to Congress demanding a rapid transition to 100 percent renewable energy and explicitly rejecting virtually all forms of emissions-free power except solar and wind. The letter (notably lacking the signatures of six of the major national environmental groups) is one of several competing efforts to define a Green New Deal, an inchoate idea that has recently captured the political imagination on the center and left. The energy and ambition of this effort is certainly worthy of applause. But environmental leaders in Congress must recognize a hard truth. The Green New Deal will be no deal if all it buys us is solar and wind power.A breakthrough on climate will depend on a willingness by Democrats and others to harness the well-intended ambition of activists while focusing on practical ways to take carbon out of our power system. Otherwise, Republicans won’t go along, and it won’t be feasible for the electric power grid.Wind and solar have come a long way since the early days. These sources now produce about 9 percent of the electricity in the United States, and their costs have declined dramatically in recent years.We can celebrate that progress without turning it into a narrow mandate. We recently reviewed 40 studies of decarbonization pathways, and the results could not have been clearer. Without exception, every study that sought to identify the most affordable clean electricity system without artificially constraining available technology options reached the same conclusion: It was much cheaper to include so-called firm low-carbon technologies such as nuclear, carbon capture, or reliable but often overlooked renewables like geothermal or hydro dams with large reservoirs, than it would be to build a clean energy system without them.Firm electricity generation resources are available on demand, for any length of time, any season of the year. That makes them a critical complement to weather-dependent wind and solar, as well as resources like batteries or strategies like demand flexibility (which permits consumers to reduce their electricity use in periods when supplies are strained) that are best suited to fast bursts of use.In other words, firm technologies complete the clean energy team. Wind and solar add value to the grid and can even be star players. But they aren’t cut out to win the decarbonization game all on their own. Why? The variability challenge of renewables is greater than is generally appreciated. The problem is not simply the setting sun and the hourly dips in wind generation; the toughest challenge comes from the weeks and months when wind and solar production decline dramatically because of seasonal factors or prolonged weather fronts.To get through those lengthy periods, renewables-dominated systems have to be supersized, installing three to eight times more power capacity than peak demand so they can fill the void when solar and wind output is diminished. That means they also produce way too much electricity when favorable conditions return. That excess is either wasted or stored (at a cost) for later use. And, presently, storage technologies are not available to do the job cost effectively at the scale we are talking about. If such a system were to be built, it would feature a lot of poorly utilized, capital-intensive wind, solar and storage assets. Unless the cost of those technologies falls to extremely low levels, we’ll be forced to choose between clean energy and affordability. The recent riots in Paris show how that conflict might play out.Clean power systems with a mix of fuels can more easily match generation to demand and productively use all assets more often, making these systems more economical to operate. There’s no waste of large surpluses of energy or the need to develop seasonal energy storage. These advantages make the economics of a balanced low-carbon power system more attractive than those that rely solely on weather-dependent renewables. Maintaining fuel diversity also minimizes the zero-sum politics of an all-renewables grid. We don’t need to shutter the nuclear and fossil fuel industries to achieve environmental goals.To be clear, firm energy technologies face daunting challenges of their own. No one believes it is easy to build nuclear or carbon-capture power plants, which would capture carbon dioxide emissions and utilize or permanently store them. Enhanced geothermal energy (which uses techniques similar to fracking to unlock renewable energy) is still an emerging technology. But the value of these resources to a decarbonized power system would be very high, justifying efforts to accelerate their development and deployment.We are not alone in our conclusions. In his State of the State address Tuesday, Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York deliberately outlined a transition to a 100-percent clean, carbon-free energy system by 2040 — not an all-renewables system. California recently did the same. When two of the most environmentally progressive states both see the wisdom of a broad path to decarbonization, activists would be wise to heed their pragmatic conclusions.Expanding and improving the set of firm, carbon-free energy resources would make it much more affordable and feasible to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions from electric power plants. That’s something Green New Dealers and Americans of all political stripes could get behind. AdvertisementSupported byA poorly enforced trade agreement continues to damage the environment and the economy. By Richard ConniffMr. Conniff is a contributing opinion writer.When the trade deal between the United States and Peru went into effect in 2009, proponents touted it as a shining example of environmental good sense. It was the first time the main text of any trade deal included detailed protections for the environment and for labor. That mattered — and still matters — both as a model for other trade deals and also because the environment ostensibly being protected includes a large chunk of the Amazon rain forest.As part of the deal’s Forest Sector Annex, the United States provided $90 million in technical assistance to beef up enforcement by Peru’s forest service and to create an electronic system intended to track every log from stump to export. (That system does not appear to be working so far, because of software issues, according to rumors.) Peru in turn agreed, among other things, to ensure the independent status of its forest watchdog agency, called Osinfor, which sends its agents into the field to check that loggers have actually harvested the trees reported in their export documents. (That system works all too well, repeatedly demonstrating that logging companies lie.) On passage, then-Senator Max Baucus assured skeptics that enforcement of the treaty’s added provision would “have real teeth.”Sadly, the U.S.-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement is now slouching toward its 10th anniversary on Feb. 1 in shambles, brought on this time by the Peruvian government’s latest attempt to hobble, cripple or otherwise rid itself of this meddlesome Osinfor. From the start, the Peru deal has served as a cover for almost laughably rampant illegal logging. The Environmental Investigation Agency, a nonprofit group, laid out detailed evidence in 2012 that Peru’s timber industry was a “laundering machine,” mass-producing “legal” paperwork for stolen timber. Stolen, that is, from national parks, protected areas and the lands of indigenous communities, whose leaders risked assassination if they resisted. So not laughable, after all, especially since much of the stolen timber has routinely been making its way from the Amazon port of Iquitos to American lumber yards and D.I.Y. stores.The Office of the United States Trade Representative, which has traditionally focused on promoting trade, has been toothless in response. It waited until 2016 to ask the Peruvian government to verify the legality of a timber shipment — and even then, did so only after the Department of Homeland Security, acting on information from Osinfor, had already impounded the timber in Houston. It was the first time the U.S.T.R. had ever issued an environmental verification request in any trade deal. When Osinfor inspectors subsequently demonstrated that 93 percent of the impounded timber was illegal, the U.S.T.R. responded by suspending a single Peruvian timber exporter from the United States market for up to three years. Peru’s response was to fire the head of Osinfor, who fled the country after death threats and a firebombing of one of Osinfor’s regional offices.The Peruvian government, which rates a 37 out of 100 on the Transparency International scale of perceived corruption (with 100 being “very clean”), has been maneuvering ever since to bring Osinfor under its thumb. In mid-December, when many people were distracted by pre-Christmas doings, the government’s council of ministers decided on short notice and without consulting the affected agencies to bury Osinfor within the environmental ministry.Representative Richard Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts, as incoming chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, fired off a letter to the U.S.T.R., angrily protesting this “brazen, bad faith decision” as “a flagrant attack on the heart of the forestry annex.” The surprise came when the trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, appointed by a Trump administration that is otherwise outspokenly contemptuous of environmental concerns, wrote back just two days later, “in complete agreement with you and your colleagues that this development is unacceptable.”One possible explanation is that the U.S.T.R. has finally become fed up after 10 years of being lied to and laughed off by Peru. Also possible: Mr. Lighthizer may simply be making a show of force on past environmental commitments to help ease the revised Nafta treaty — the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement — through forthcoming congressional hearings. (Happily for the U.S.T.R., the environmental provisions of the unpronounceable U.S.M.C.A. are largely too weak to require much enforcement.)For now, Mr. Lighthizer has “requested consultations with Peru under the Environment Chapter” of the trade agreement, another first for the U.S.T.R., with the possibility of sanctions still ahead. In Lima, government ministers are taking a this-too-will-pass attitude.It should not pass. Tolerating stolen timber imports costs the jobs of thousands of Americans in the legal timber industry. It lends an eager hand to deforestation even as an intact Amazon forest is increasingly seen as a critical factor in fighting climate change. It implicates everyone who buys or sells lumber, or who lives in a wood house, in a global pattern of corruption, murder and devastation. And it turns all trade agreements into thinly veiled invitations to crime.If in fact the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative has overcome its teething pains, that’s good news. Now when trade partners prove false, it should learn how to bite.
Chicago will be as cold as the Arctic on Wednesday. We’ll show you why.
JAN. 30, 2019
Temperatures will plummet to minus 26 degrees Fahrenheit in Chicago and minus 31 degrees in Madison, Wis., on Wednesday night — the worst cold to grip the Upper Midwest in a generation. Parts of Alaska, on the other hand, are unseasonably warm.What is causing such extreme weather across the United States? The polar vortex, an ominous-sounding system of wind and cold air over the North Pole, broke apart this month. Here’s how it’s bringing dangerous cold nationwide.Dr. Cohen said extreme weather could continue for six to eight weeks after the split.The effects of the polar vortex could become more frequent and severe. Scientists looking at links between climate change and the polar vortex believe that the rapidly warming Arctic could bring about more intense periods of cold snaps and storms, even as winters become shorter and warmer.Additional production by Jon Huang and Destinée-Charisse Royal.Executive Producer: Graham RobertsSources: National Centers for Environmental Prediction; National Weather Service; National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; United States Department of Commerce; Judah Cohen of Atmospheric and Environmental Research; Mark Serreze of the National Snow and Ice Data Center; Zachary D. Lawrence of the New Mexico Tech Physics Department

      By YULIYA PARSHINA-KOTTAS, 
    
KARTHIK PATANJALI, 
    
JEREMY WHITE, 
    
BENJAMIN WILHELM and 
    
EVAN GROTHJAN

AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressBRUSSELS — Swedish teenage environmental activist Greta Thunberg says time is running out to halt climate change and she's urging European politicians "to panic."Thunberg told EU lawmakers Tuesday: "I want you to act as if the house is on fire."She said that "if our house was falling apart you wouldn't hold three emergency Brexit summits and no emergency summit regarding the breakdown of the climate and environment."AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(If you don’t get California Today by email, here’s the sign-up.)Yesterday, my colleagues Thomas Fuller, Jennifer Medina and Conor Dougherty took a hard look at the future of America’s  infrastructure projects, like California’s high-speed rail. More specifically: Are projects that big even possible anymore, given the cost and regulation? In California, that regulation has reached notoriously byzantine heights and is epitomized in four letters: C.E.Q.A. Conor explains how that happened:The rapidly escalating cost of California’s high-speed rail project has led to a loss of political support and cast a cloud over its prospects, raising big questions about America’s ability to take on big projects as it once did. The train’s problems also highlight a paradox here and across the nation: It’s often hardest to build in the populated areas where investment is needed most.For those trying to carry out such projects in California, nothing is more daunting than the California Environmental Quality Act, or C.E.Q.A. Signed by Gov. Ronald Reagan in 1970, the statute has become a widely used legal tool for delaying or stopping public-works projects from the massive to the micro — even, until recently, those designating bike lanes. And those cases can pit environmental objections against environmental goals.It is widely agreed in California that new housing and infrastructure should be built in and around population centers, to curb sprawl, to cut down on driving, and to help the state meet its ambitious goals to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. But lawsuits filed under the environmental quality act have often taken aim at just such projects.According to a 2015 study, about 80 percent of the environmental lawsuits filed in California over a three-year period were targeted at “infill” developments in already populated areas. Housing and infrastructure projects accounted for more than half. The complaints can be brought on any number of environmental grounds, like the dust and noise generated or the impact on views.Several years ago a proposal to add passenger trains to a cargo rail line already in use was challenged on the grounds that it would lead to additional squealing and grease drippage. In the case of the high-speed rail project, designed to link the Central Valley with the Bay Area and Los Angeles, a C.E.Q.A. lawsuit by the Silicon Valley enclave of Atherton challenged whether the rail authority had adequately studied the engineering of the train’s route.That case ultimately failed, but even fighting litigation adds to a project’s cost and can often delay it. The rail project has been challenged on other legal grounds as well, including its adherence to the terms of a bond issue financing it.Increased investment in roads, bridges and power plants has won support across party lines. But as California’s experience illustrates, talk about big projects is easy. Routing them around legal land mines is hard.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• My colleague Lisa Lerer talked to Gov. Gavin Newsom about his relationship with President Trump for the On Politics newsletter. The takeaway? Mr. Newsom can talk tough, but he still has to figure out how to work with the administration. [The New York Times]• What do plans to scale back high-speed rail mean for Kern County and for Bakersfield’s economic development plans? Reactions have been mixed among local stakeholders and lawmakers who represent the southern Central Valley. Here’s an in-depth conversation. [KGET]• Jeff Adachi, the only elected public defender in the state and a well-known criminal justice advocate in San Francisco, died suddenly last week. Here are some of his highest-profile fights, which span decades. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• You’re not just getting more sensitive — it’s actually been the coldest February in Los Angeles since 1962. [The National Weather Service]• Still, in general, the climate is getting warmer. Which means that even indoor workplaces will have to start figuring out ways to keep employees cool. [KQED]• It’s supposed to rain a lot again in the Bay Area. The Atmospheric River is back. [The Mercury News]• After a San Francisco private equity firm acquired Mindbody, the fitness class booking platform based in San Luis Obispo, for $1.9 billion on Christmas Eve, its chief executive went silent about whether the company would move. Finally, he put the speculation to rest — for now. “We’re deeply committed to the community,” he said recently. [The San Luis Obispo Tribune]• The Securities and Exchange Commission wants Elon Musk to be held in contempt of court for a tweet in which the agency said Mr. Musk published “erroneous” information about Tesla’s production goals. [The New York Times]• A (maybe) mouthed message from Spike Lee to Samuel L. Jackson at the Oscars shined an unwanted spotlight on the practice of tanking in the N.B.A., which is when teams — like, say, Mr. Lee’s beloved Knicks — are bad on purpose so they can get a better spot in the draft. [The New York Times]• Frank Gehry, who designed Los Angeles’s iconic Walt Disney Concert Hall, is turning 90. He talks about continuing to work at a breakneck pace. “The office is just busy, and we’re all struggling to keep up with it.” [The Los Angeles Times]After the glitz of the Academy Awards, there are usually some figures from the awards season that stick with you.I hope — as do, it seems, a lot of other people who saw “Roma” — that Yalitza Aparicio is one of them.She’s the star of Alfonso Cuarón’s film revisiting the Mexico City of his childhood through the lens of the domestic worker who raised him. And while Ms. Aparicio is worshiped in her Oaxacan hometown, her status as a barrier-breaking woman of Indigenous descent from Mexico has won her fans in the U.S., and in California especially.But Ms. Aparicio, even after being nominated for an Oscar, has said she’s not sure she’ll continue acting. Either way, she said, she wants to be a force for positive change — not an exception.“I realized that film can educate people of all ages, in a far-reaching way,” she said.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressRENO, Nev. — Burning Man organizers say the U.S. government wants to place unreasonable conditions on a proposal to expand the counter-culture festival's capacity to 100,000, including stepped-up security searches and new perimeter barriers that land managers say would reduce vulnerability to acts of terrorism.Group leaders say the Bureau of Land Management's proposed stipulations for a new 10-year special use permit would for the first time require certified building inspections, maintenance of a county road and air quality mitigation that could raise their costs by $10 million a year at the annual event in the desert 100 miles (160 kilometers) north of Reno.The draft environmental impact statement points to the mass shooting at a country music festival on the Las Vegas Strip in October 2017. It's apparently the first time the agency has analyzed terrorist threats as part of an environmental review for proposed activities on federal land.While terrorism has never occurred at Burning Man, "several vulnerabilities exist," the 372-page document warns. It says the big crowds, "iconic status of Burning Man and widespread media coverage of the event could make the festival an attractive target for an individual or team of attackers."Crowds at the weeklong celebration culminating on Labor Day weekend with the burning of a towering wooden effigy have grown from about 30,000 in 2002 to 79,000 in 2017. Attendance currently is capped at 80,000.The draft issued last month says an attack could result in mass casualties that exceed the capacity of law enforcement and medical resources on-site."Since the event is a soft target with the potential to draw the ire of international and domestic terrorists, tactics from active shooter, vehicular assault and improvised explosive devices are real threats with a low to moderate risk of occurrence," the document said.Without naming best-selling author Brad Thor's spy-thriller "Use of Force," it notes that "a novel depicting the Burning Man Event as a terrorist target was published in 2017 and depicts weaknesses in the event security.""Limited access controls and lack of professional security resources at entrances points into the city, coupled with limited law enforcement staffing, are two critical event vulnerabilities," the agency said.Bureau field manager Mark Hall said it's the first time he's aware of his agency has analyzed terrorism in an environmental review on federal land."Since the October 1, 2017 shooting in Las Vegas, however, a greater emphasis on large scale outdoor gatherings has evolved and (the Department of Homeland Security) recently provided new protocols for outdoor mass gathering event safety," he said in an email to The Associated Press.The draft EIS proposes 10.4 miles (16.7 kilometers) of perimeter fencing under the 100,000-capacity scenario that would enlarge the closure area to 23 square miles (60 sq. kilometers).Hardened physical barriers would reduce the risk of vehicle entry through the current "orange plastic trash fence," the agency said. Private security portals would reduce entry of firearms "and other contraband."Burning Man leaders say the proposal would force them to hire private security "to conduct unwarranted searches without probable cause as a condition of entry into this section of public land."Dominque Debucquoy-Dodley said in an email to AP on behalf of Burning Man Project that several stipulations would result in the government replacing, overseeing or managing operations organizers "have successfully built and managed for decades.""Our initial assessment reveals that the measures recommended by BLM in order to issue our next permit are unreasonable" and "would forever negatively change the fabric of the Burning Man event," he wrote. He said "one brazen measure" would force the private organization to pay for maintenance of a public highway."This and many of the mitigations ... would raise ticket prices substantially."Other alternatives analyzed would maintain capacity at 80,000, reduce it to 50,000 or deny a permit altogether.AdvertisementSupported byTravel TipsYou may live a sustainable lifestyle at home, but what about while on vacation? Here are some practical steps you can take to limit your impact on the environment. By Justin SablichEven if you strive for a sustainable lifestyle at home, it may be tempting to avoid thinking about the impact your travels could have on the environment. No one wants to feel guilty on vacation.But the effects traveling has on the environment are significant. A study published last year by the University of Sydney found that global tourism accounts for 8 percent of total carbon emissions, three times higher than previously thought.“As global travel is becoming cheaper and more accessible, the usage of airplanes, cruise ships, trains and buses is increasing and giving off a tremendous amount of carbon and other harmful substances,” said Samantha Bray, managing director of the Center for Responsible Travel, a nonprofit organization that supports sustainable tourism practices.However, being a sustainable, or green, traveler — one who considers the impact travel has on both the physical and the cultural environments visited — is not as inconvenient as it may seem. Here are some practical steps travelers can take to limit the potential harm that comes from exploring the world.How you choose to reach your destination may be the single most important decision when it comes to your trip’s environmental impact. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, aircraft produce 12 percent of all U.S. greenhouse gases generated from transportation. Emissions from cars and other vehicles account for an even greater total percentage.If where you’re heading is accessible by train, consider taking one.“It’s a great way to see a destination and has a much lower carbon impact than flying,” said Justin Francis, CEO of Responsible Travel, a travel booking agency that specializes in sustainable tourism.Avoiding flying altogether is often not an option for travelers, but the idea is to eliminate unnecessary flights when possible.“Shorter flights and stopovers are more polluting per passenger-mile than longer flights as take off and landings generate a significant part of the total emissions per flight,” Mr. Francis said. “Try and avoid internal flights within a destination — use local public transport where possible and travel on foot or by bike to explore smaller areas.”Other ideas include taking fewer but longer vacations and flying direct as often as possible.Where you choose to sleep at night also plays a key role in being a green traveler. This part requires some legwork and research, however.“Hotel sustainability practices have grown tremendously in recent years, especially through certification programs that follow international best-practice standards,” Ms. Bray said.The Global Sustainable Tourism Council (G.S.T.C.) recognizes certification programs for hotels and tour operators, Ms. Bray said. Travelers can visit their site to see lists of these programs, which include The Rainforest Alliance and Earth Check, and hotels that are accredited will typically show a certification logo on their own websites and marketing materials.But hotels that are not officially recognized for their green efforts can still be sustainable, which is why you should inquire with a hotel you’re considering before you book.“Always ask your holiday provider for their responsible tourism policy — if they don’t have one then they are not taking it seriously and you may want to reconsider,” Mr. Francis said.Key aspects to look for in a responsible tourism policy include environmental, social and local economic impacts, from waste, water and energy. You should also look for the hotel’s commitment to its local community and the fair employment of local people, Mr. Francis said.“As soon as you remember that you are visiting people’s homes, and see them as hosts rather than homogeneous holiday providers, you become more responsible tourists,” Mr. Francis said.Ms. Bray suggests following the mantra of “leave no trace” when visiting a destination, as the creation of solid waste — particularly plastic — has significant environmental impacts.“Travelers can help reduce their waste production by carrying their own reusable bags, straws, utensils, and takeaway containers,” Ms. Bray said.Tourists can also choose to spend their money with businesses that source locally.“This may be through eating locally grown foods or purchasing locally produced handicrafts. Often times, making the more sustainable and locally beneficial choice is actually more enriching,” Ms. Bray said.When visiting a destination that is facing a specific issue, whether it’s an environmental crisis like a water shortage or an economic hardship, consider ways you can contribute to the community, and enjoy your trip while enriching the place that’s enriching you. However, not every approach is a good one."Sometimes giving back while traveling can have unintended consequences,” Ms. Bray said, like increasing communities' dependence on charity, or channeling work away from locals and to seasonal workers.Ms. Bray suggests contacting the ministry of tourism for the destination to find out how to best support the issue. You can also ask your hotel or tour operator if they have recommendations for how to best get involved.Some tour companies are better than others regarding environmental conservation, protecting wildlife, supporting cultural heritage and employing local guides. In general, choose operators that are transparent about their support for the communities they visit.“Many are doing this very well, even becoming carbon neutral, and now have responsible travel policies that guide how they interact with and support communities,” Ms. Bray said.If a tour company is not clear about its policy, ask them directly if they employ locals and how else they connect with the community. There are also nonprofit advocacy groups like The International Ecotourism Society (T.I.E.S.) that require their member organizations to follow sustainable tourism practices. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMIAMI — A federal judge has threatened to temporarily block Carnival Corp. from docking cruise ships at ports in the United States as punishment for a possible probation violation.The Miami Herald reports U.S. District Judge Patricia Seitz said Wednesday that she'll make a decision in June, and she wants company chairman Micky Arison to attend the hearing.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMOSCOW — Activists say that police have detained several participants in a protest against the construction of a waste dump in northwestern Russia.Several thousand demonstrators rallied in Arkhangelsk on Sunday demanding the project be halted, and some have vowed to stay on the city's central square to press their demands.Police allowed the unsanctioned protest to go on peacefully, but detained several organizers on Monday, according to OVD-Info, an independent online portal monitoring human rights issues.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressRIDGEFIELD, Conn. — Authorities say it could cost over $50,000 to repair a Connecticut baseball diamond where somebody dumped gasoline and set it on fire to dry out the infield.Police are investigating the fire in Ridgefield in which 25 gallons of gasoline was poured on the field Saturday.First Selectman Rudy Marconi told Hearst Connecticut Media that 75 to 100 people watched as it happened, with some recording video on their cellphones. The town's high school baseball team had been planning to host Amity on the field.AdvertisementSupported byBy Johanna LemolaA Finnish political party that campaigned against ambitious climate change policies won the second-highest number of seats in parliamentary elections on Sunday, in a vote in which global warming became a polarizing issue.The Finns Party did even better than predicted by recent polls during the campaign. It was almost tied in the popular vote with the winning party.Although the Finns, a right-wing populist party, is unlikely to be part of a new government, its performance Sunday may give it more of a voice in the country’s politics.The vote reflected a growing fragmentation among voters.While the other eight parties running for office endorse strong measures to fight climate change, the Finns Party seized on the issue as a new front in culture wars. It argued that aggressive climate change policies are an elitist approach that hurts the working class.A similar dynamic set off the “Yellow Vest” protests against a fuel tax increase in France. And Germany’s far-right party, Alternative for Germany, has assailed the science behind clean-air policy.The Finns Party, which has long put forward an anti-immigration agenda, won 39 seats, just one seat fewer than the top vote getters, the Social Democrats. The Finns claimed during the campaign that Finland had been overtaken by climate hysteria and that the country has done more than its fair share on the issue.Yet parties that support environmental action also made significant gains in Sunday’s vote. The environmentally focused Greens party secured 20 seats — its highest number ever. And the Left Alliance, which also backs an ambitious climate agenda, had its first win since 1995, securing 16 seats.The vote brought mixed results for the parties that have led the country in a coalition government for the past four years. The Center Party, a centrist agrarian party that led the previous government, slipped to fourth place, losing 18 seats. But the center-right National Coalition Party, which was also part of the coalition, gained one seat, for a total of 38.The campaign revealed a gender divide in the country, with men accounting for 80 percent of the Finns Party’s support. But when the ballot casting was done, Finns had voted in the most female lawmakers in their history. Women are expected to hold 94 out of Parliament’s 200 seats, up from 83 in the last election.As the winning party, however narrow its margin, the Social Democrats will now try to form a coalition government with other parties under the leadership of its chairman, Antti Rinne — a process that is likely to be complicated by the close result.All of the other parties have expressed reservations about entering a coalition with the Finns Party.There may be some added urgency because Finland is due to take over the rotating presidency of the European Union on July 1, at a time when the bloc is struggling to negotiate the terms of Britain’s pending departure.AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn Thrush and Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — The United States is accusing Peru of violating its commitment to protect the Amazon rain forest from deforestation, threatening to hold Lima in violation of the 2007 United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement.On Friday, Robert Lighthizer, President Trump’s top trade negotiator, announced that he was seeking formal consultations with Peru to resolve concerns about its recent decision to curtail the authority of the country’s forestry auditor, Organismo de Supervisión de los Recursos Forestales, which was established to comply with the treaty. The move prompted concern within the Trump administration — and complaint from congressional Democrats — that it will lead to more illegal logging in Peru.“By taking this unprecedented step, the Trump administration is making clear that it takes monitoring and enforcement of U.S. trade agreements seriously, including obligations to strengthen forest sector governance,” Mr. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, said in a statement.The challenge is intended, in part, to send a signal to Democrats that the administration is willing to enforce environmental and labor provisions that are included in trade agreements. The forestry agreement was inserted into the 2007 trade agreement by Representative Nancy Pelosi, the California Democrat who was sworn in as speaker of the House on Thursday. The language is the basis for enforcement provisions of environmental and labor standards in the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement that the three countries settled on last year.Mr. Trump needs congressional Democrats to support the new U.S.M.C.A., which has yet to pass Congress. But Democrats have questioned whether the revised deal, which replaces the North American Free Trade Agreement, has enough teeth to force Mexico to comply with commitments to raise wages in the automotive industry. The Peru forestry annex was considered a model for a new inspection system that could include confiscation at the border of goods deemed to violate the treaty, and the prosecution of companies that import noncompliant products.In a letter to members of Congress last month, Mr. Lighthizer said he would request that an independent tribunal be convened — an action intended, in part, to win Democratic votes for the revised Nafta, which includes similar environmental protections.“As you know, ensuring that the commitments of our trading partners are monitored and enforced is a top priority,” Mr. Lighthizer wrote to Representative Richard Neal, Democrat of Massachusetts and the new chairman of the powerful House Ways and Means Committee.In a signal to Democrats that he will fight on their behalf, Mr. Lighthizer said he agreed with Mr. Neal that Peru’s decision to dismantle an agency created to stop the illegal harvesting of trees was “unacceptable.”Mr. Lighthizer has spent the past several weeks trying to contain the fallout from Mr. Trump’s announcement on Dec. 2 that he planned to withdraw from Nafta, a statement intended to pressure Democrats into passing the new agreement within the next six months.Mr. Lighthizer met with Ms. Pelosi last month, attempting to reassure her that the administration planned to implement a robust system of inspections at the border to ensure that Mexico was complying with its labor and environmental obligations.“While there are positive things in this proposed trade agreement, it is just a list without real enforcement of the labor and environmental protections,” Ms. Pelosi said after the meeting.Peru has scaled back environmental enforcement in recent years in an attempt to attract greater foreign investment. In 2016, the Peruvian government fired the forestry organization’s director, Rolando Navarro, after timber industry executives protested the seizure of Amazonian wood by American officials.In December, the Peruvian government limited the independence of the country’s forestry auditor.Over the past 10 years, Congress has sent Peru $90 million in aid intended to beef up enforcement. In 2015, Department of Homeland Security officials in Houston, acting on intelligence from their Peruvian counterparts, seized 1,770 metric tons of Amazon rain forest wood they found in a rusty freighter.But since then, enforcement has waned, and illegal deforestation is increasing, according to an Associated Press investigation published in April.House Democrats applauded Mr. Lighthizer’s move on Friday.“Finally, a tree falls in the woods and someone hears it,” said Representative Lloyd Doggett of Texas. “This U.S.T.R. deserves credit for doing what the previous one failed to do. For years, I’ve been seeking enforcement regarding rampant illegal logging.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDESROCHES ISLAND, Seychelles — In a striking speech delivered from deep below the ocean's surface, the Seychelles president on Sunday made a global plea for stronger protection of the "beating blue heart of our planet."President Danny Faure's call for action, the first-ever live speech from an underwater submersible, came from one of the many island nations threatened by global warming.He spoke during a visit to an ambitious British-led science expedition exploring the Indian Ocean depths. Oceans cover over two-thirds of the world's surface but remain, for the most part, uncharted. We have better maps of Mars than we do of the ocean floor, Faure said."This issue is bigger than all of us, and we cannot wait for the next generation to solve it. We are running out of excuses to not take action, and running out of time," the president said from a manned submersible 400 feet (121 meters) below the waves, on the seabed off the outer islands of the African nation.Wearing a Seychelles T-shirt and shorts, the president told The Associated Press after his speech that the experience was "so, so cool. What biodiversity." It made him more determined than ever to speak out for marine protection, he said. "We just need to do what needs to be done. The scientists have spoken."The oceans' role in regulating climate and the threats they face are underestimated by many, even though as Faure pointed out they generate "half of the oxygen we breathe." Scientific missions are crucial in taking stock of underwater ecosystems' health.Small island nations are among the most vulnerable to sea level rise caused by climate change, and some have found creative ways to express their concerns. Faure's speech came a decade after members of the Maldives' Cabinet donned scuba gear and used hand signals at an underwater meeting highlighting global warming's threat to the lowest-lying nation on earth.Land erosion, dying coral reefs and the increased frequency of extreme weather events threaten such countries' existence.During the expedition, marine scientists from the University of Oxford have surveyed underwater life, mapped large areas of the sea floor and gone deep with manned submersibles and underwater drones.Little is known about the watery world below depths of 30 meters, the limit to which a normal scuba diver can go. Operating down to 500 meters, the scientists were the first to explore areas of great diversity where sunlight weakens and the deep ocean begins.By the end of the mission, researchers expect to have conducted over 300 deployments, collected around 1,400 samples and 16 terabytes of data and surveyed about 30 square kilometers (11.5 sq. miles) of seabed using high-resolution multi-beam sonar equipment.The data will be used to help the Seychelles expand its policy of protecting almost a third of its national waters by 2020. The initiative is important for the country's "blue economy," an attempt to balance development needs with those of the environment."From this depth, I can see the incredible wildlife that needs our protection, and the consequences of damaging this huge ecosystem that has existed for millennia," Faure said in his speech. "Over the years, we have created these problems. We can solve them."Currently, only about 5% of the world's oceans are protected. Countries have agreed to increase the area to 10% by 2020. But experts and environmental campaigners say between 30% and 50% of the oceans outside nations' territorial waters should get protected status to ensure marine biodiversity.Researchers hope their findings also will inform ongoing United Nations talks aimed at forging the first high seas conservation treaty, scheduled to conclude this year.Environmental groups argue an international treaty is urgently needed because climate change, overfishing and efforts to mine the seabed for precious minerals are putting unsustainable pressure on marine life that could have devastating consequences for creatures on land as well.Oceans will be one of the seven main themes of this year's U.N. climate summit in Chile in December.While scientists with the Nekton mission are nearing the end of their expedition, much of their work is just beginning. In the next few months, researchers at Oxford will analyze the samples and video surveys and put them together with environmental data."When we pull them together we can understand not just what we see in the areas that we've visited but what we might expect in other regions in the Seychelles," said Lucy Woodall, the mission's chief scientist.This is the first of a half-dozen regions the mission plans to explore before the end of 2022, when scientists will present their research at a summit on the state of the Indian Ocean. Billions of people live along the ocean's shores in Africa and Asia.___Associated Press writer Frank Jordans in Berlin contributed.___AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa Friedman and Trip GabrielWASHINGTON — President Trump derided the Green New Deal as a “high school term paper that got a low mark.” Congressional Republicans mocked it as “zany.” Even Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House speaker, called the proposal a “green dream,” and some of the party’s 2020 candidates are starting to describe it as merely aspirational.Yet, despite that disdain, the goals of the far-reaching plan to tackle climate change and economic inequality are within the realm of technological possibility, several energy experts and economists said in recent interviews.Getting there will cost trillions of dollars, most agreed, and require expansive new taxes and federal programs. It certainly could not be accomplished within the 10-year time frame that supporters say is necessary, according to these experts.The Green New Deal, in other words, is an exciting idea for many liberals and an enticing political target for conservatives. But, most of all, it is an extraordinarily complicated series of trade-offs that could be realized, experts say, with extensive sacrifices that people are only starting to understand.[Here are answers to nine key questions on the Green New Deal.]Proposals for a Green New Deal — which would aim to slow climate change and catapult myriad industries into cutting-edge, low-carbon technologies — have been debated for more than a decade. But the subject was given new urgency last year by a high-profile United Nations report that said the Earth was on track to experience food shortages, fatal heat waves and mass die-offs of coral reefs by 2040, sooner than earlier projections. The report called for staggering changes to the global energy economy.If the planet follows its current trajectory, the result by century’s end would be “catastrophe,” said John P. Holdren, the former science adviser to President Barack Obama. “The world would be almost unrecognizable compared to today’s world.”“The evidence the climate is changing is becoming so overwhelming people are seeing it in their regions and in their lives,” he added. “We are really to the point where we’re seeing bodies in the street from severe flooding and severe wildfires.”[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]The challenges in the Green New Deal for the economy, for Democratic presidential candidates running on it and for voters start with the fact that nearly 80 percent of America’s energy now comes from relatively cheap and plentiful fossil fuels.Replacing them with sources that do not emit greenhouse gasses will cost trillions of dollars; potentially increase energy costs for millions of families; and entail federal intervention in swaths of the economy, like transportation, where there is already a mixed record of government success. Republican critics gleefully noted last week that California’s Democratic governor scaled back a state-owned bullet train linking San Francisco and Los Angeles because of costs.Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, has already said he will bring the plan to the floor, a move to force Democrats — particularly the six presidential candidates in the Senate who have endorsed the blueprint — to cast a vote that Republicans can use to brand them as socialists and extremists. Most 2020 hopefuls standing up for a Green New Deal have done little more than endorse it as a slogan and have rarely been pressed on its specifics.But while the scope of the Green New Deal is enormous, experts believe that the economic trade-offs — saving trillions on potential catastrophe by spending trillions to prevent it — are worth serious consideration given the scale of the threat, and that a deep policy discussion would help voters and other Americans grapple with the environmental threats.The Green New Deal, which is a congressional resolution without the force of legislation, calls for a “10-year national mobilization” to make the United States carbon-neutral across the economy. That means, as much carbon would have to be absorbed as is released into the atmosphere. Mr. Holdren, who is now a professor of environmental policy at Harvard University, said the Green New Deal’s timeline of achieving that goal around 2030 is not feasible.“As a technologist studying this problem for 50 years, I don’t think we can do it,” he said.“There’s hope we could do it by 2045 or 2050 if we get going now,” he added.Mr. Holdren said worldwide energy infrastructure — an investment of $25 to $30 trillion — turns over every three to four decades, and an aggressive transition to non-carbon energy begun today could achieve zero emissions by midcentury. That is the deadline urged by scientists from 40 countries in last year’s report from the U.N.’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.The more ambitious Green New Deal was introduced by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts. Its sweeping targets also include supplying 100 percent of the country’s electricity from renewable and zero-emissions sources within a decade; digitizing the nation’s power grid; upgrading every building to be more energy efficient; and overhauling factories and transportation, including cars, trucks and trains “as much as is technologically feasible” to remove greenhouse emissions.The plan does not include a cost estimate, though it presumably would require massive new government spending and disrupt existing jobs and industries.In addition to its climate goals, the plan includes far-ranging and politically problematic social promises, including guaranteed high-wage jobs, housing, paid vacation and health care.Ethan Zindler, head of North American research at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, a clean-energy research group, said the power goal alone would be an enormous lift.He noted that 37 percent of electricity in the United States comes from zero-carbon sources, including 20 percent of which is nuclear. If no new policies are enacted and all existing nuclear plants are kept online, the United States can rise to about 44 percent clean energy by 2030.“We are quite optimistic that renewables will become the lowest-cost option” in the near future, Mr. Zindler said. But a 100 percent transformation to clean energy in a decade would necessitate not just shutting down coal, but also decommissioning natural gas plants.“That would be extremely, extremely difficult to do verging on impossible without causing some real harm to the economy,” he said.Mark Z. Jacobson, a Stanford professor of civil and environmental engineering, was more optimistic. His research influenced a California law last year requiring the state to use 100 percent carbon-free energy by 2045. Mr. Jacobson said that 80 percent of the Green New Deal’s target of net-zero greenhouse emissions across the economy could be achieved by 2030, and 100 percent between 2040 and 2050.“You don’t need any miracle technologies,” he said.He laid out a multistep plan: converting all energy to electricity and heat, and generating both solely with wind, solar and water resources; heating and cooling buildings with electric heat pumps; and powering factories with furnaces that use electricity. The only economic sector that can’t be electrified with existing technology, he said, are long-distance airplanes and ships.The Green New Deal “is technically and economically feasible,” he said. “Socially and politically, it’s a different question.”Architects of the Green New Deal envision creating millions of high-wage jobs through its massive clean-infrastructure build-out. Labor unions have been cool to the plan, though, fearing that jobs in the renewable-energy sector won’t be as high-paying or plentiful as those in oil and gas.But Kelly Sims Gallagher, director of Tufts University’s Center for International Environment and Resource Policy, said she believes the resolution’s jobs goals are reachable.There are now about 786,000 Americans working in the renewable energy industry, according to the most recent figures from International Renewable Energy Agency, compared to 3.8 million in China and 1.2 million in Europe.Ms. Gallagher said the nation seems to have ceded some of these jobs to Europe and to China. “There’s no reason why we couldn’t get those back and build a stronger clean-energy industry in the United States,’’ she said. Overhauling the transportation and buildings sectors within a decade are by far the biggest challenges the Green New Deal presents, she added. Both require major financial investments, regulations and — in the case of spurring electric-vehicle development and public transit — probably new taxes.Ultimately, many experts said, it would not be possible to achieve Green New Deal goals without building into the economy a cost for emitting greenhouse gases — such as a carbon tax, which has long been a Republican, business-oriented approach.Adele Morris, policy director of the climate and energy economics project at the Brookings Institution, said a greenhouse gas tax imposed on fewer than 3,000 taxpaying entities — corporations and municipal plants — would target 85 percent of United States emissions. And Daniel C. Esty a Yale environmental law professor and former commissioner of Connecticut’s Department of Energy and Environmental Protection, said a $5-per-ton price on carbon that increases $5 each year over 20 years would put the United States in “full transformation mode” within a decade.Republicans have mocked the Green New Deal as a “socialist wish list” untethered to economic realities. But the plan is popular with the Democratic base. A poll last week commissioned by environmental groups in early primary states — California, New Hampshire, South Carolina, Iowa and Nevada — found 74 percent of likely Democratic primary voters reacted favorably when the Green New Deal was described to them.Although six Democratic presidential candidates are co-sponsors of the Green New Deal — Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand, Kamala Harris, Amy Klobuchar, Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren — it is unclear how familiar or supportive they are of its specifics. Most have offered general praise for its goals. Ms. Klobuchar, in an interview at a CNN town hall Monday, called the Green New Deal “so important right now for our country.” But when pressed on whether the specific goals are achievable, she said, “I think that they are aspirations,” and some compromises will be needed.Mr. Sanders, who on Tuesday announced his candidacy for 2020, intends to release a plan for reaching the Green New Deal goals, said his spokesman, Josh Miller-Lewis.In a recent interview Mr. Sanders said, “I’m prepared to be as bold as we can.”He said: “We are already spending many billions of dollars a year dealing with the impact of climate change,” a figure certain to rise.Mr. Booker, challenged by a Fox News reporter on Monday about the high costs to upgrade lighting alone, said, “This is the lie that’s going on right now,” while Ms. Warren, urging ambitious goals last week, said, “Republicans are stuck somewhere back in the 1950s.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]The few congressional Republicans who want to address climate change have been wary of the Green New Deal. Representative Francis Rooney of Florida, the Republican co-chairman of the Climate Solutions Caucus, said he would likely vote against the resolution because of its lack of details and dismissal of “free enterprise and capitalism.”“I don’t want to distract us from focusing on practical things we can actually accomplish like a carbon tax, like developing the infrastructure necessary to fight sea level rise,” he said.If the Green New Deal advances beyond a resolution to bill-writing, its policies have no chance of passing in the currently divided Congress, with a president who has mocked global warming as a hoax.Thomas J. Pyle, president of the Institute for Energy Research, a pro-fossil-fuel group, pointed out that such policies could not even pass in Democratic strongholds like Washington State, where voters in November decisively rejected a ballot proposal for a carbon tax.Mr. Pyle argued that Green New Deal boosters are not being realistic about the environmental consequences of constructing high-speed rail, manufacturing zero-emission vehicles or retrofitting buildings.“How much steel is this going to involve? How much concrete? Think about the sheer amount of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere for retrofitting alone,” he said. “It’s almost as if they are suspending reality to get to their end goal.”But environmental activists said the details and hurdles are less important than the broad ambition of the plan, which proposes a national mobilization with the scale and urgency of the original New Deal.“The science is clear: Time is not our friend here,” said Carol Browner, a White House climate adviser to Mr. Obama and chief of the Environmental Protection Administration under President Bill Clinton. “So I have to say I’m as excited about this as I have been about anything in the environmental space in a long time.”Lisa Friedman reported from Washington and Trip Gabriel from New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - The United States approved nearly 40 percent more oil and gas drilling permits on public lands in 2018 than it did the previous year thanks to an automated online system introduced in the waning days of the Obama administration, helping reduce a big backlog of applications.President Donald Trump has made it a priority to speed permitting and reduce regulation as a way to boost production of oil, gas and coal from public lands - an agenda that has pleased the energy and mining industries but outraged environmentalists concerned about pollution and climate change.The Department of Interior's Bureau of Land Management approved 3,991 drilling permits in fiscal 2018, up from 2,887 in 2017, the agency said, an increase of 38 percent. The average time to process an application to drill with BLM was cut nearly in half to 63 days from 120 days in 2017.A BLM spokesman, Derrick Henry, attributed the permit approval increase in 2018 to "using increased automation and flexible staffing to make decisions more quickly."The numbers were first revealed by Brian Steed, deputy director for policy and programs at BLM, in Congressional testimony earlier this month. BLM said the figures were not yet finalized and could still change.BLM in 2017 set a goal of eliminating its backlog of permit applications that have been pending for three or more years by October of this year, and in the first nine months of 2018 slashed it by 47 percent from 551 to 288, according to a BLM document reviewed by Reuters. Under the Obama administration, BLM undertook a major effort to improve its system for processing permits to address long delays and inefficiency. In 2016 it shifted to all electronic filing. Permit approval times were around 200 days prior to the introduction of the new system, according to BLM data.The Western Energy Alliance, an oil and gas industry trade group, said speedier permit approvals were due to both increased automation and a more supportive administration."The improvements in automation were started under President Obama, but having an administration which wants to move forward is even more important," said Kathleen Sgamma, WEA's president. Environmentalists say the increased speed has come at the expense of allowing the public to provide input on the drilling applications, which are posted publicly on the permitting web site for 30 days and then removed."BLM is cutting corners on environmental reviews of drilling permits by shutting out the public from commenting on those reviews," said Kelly Fuller, energy and mining campaigns director for Western Watersheds Project. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressRALEIGH, N.C. — The country's largest electric company says it's challenging an order by North Carolina's environmental agency to excavate coal ash from all of its power plant sites in the state.Duke Energy Corp. said Thursday it will file an administrative appeal by May 1. The order could cut the risk of toxic chemicals leaking into water supplies but add billions of dollars to electricity bills.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCROSBY, Texas/WASHINGTON — President Donald Trump signed two executive orders in the heart of the Texas energy hub on Wednesday targeting the power of states to delay natural gas, coal and oil projects as he looks to build support ahead of next year's election.Trump's orders direct his Environmental Protection Agency to change a part of the U.S. clean water law that has allowed states to delay projects on environmental grounds. New York has delayed pipelines that would bring natural gas to New England, for example, and Washington state has stopped coal export terminals."My action today will cut through destructive permitting delays and denials ... what takes you 20 years to get a permit, those days are gone," said Trump, surrounded by workers in hard hats and yellow vests.He signed the orders at a training center for petroleum industry workers near Houston, an event sandwiched between fundraising events for the 2020 presidential campaign. Critics vowed to oppose Trump's actions. New York Governor Andrew Cuomo said the orders were a "gross overreach of federal authority that undermines New York's ability to protect our water quality and our environment." Any attempt to usurp state authority on the projects will be fought "tooth and nail," the Democrat said.Chris Stockton, a spokesman for Williams Cos Inc, which has fought Cuomo's denial of its Constitution gas pipeline from Pennsylvania, said the company supported Trump's effort to "foster coordination, predictability and transparency in federal environmental review."The orders direct the EPA to review and update guidance issued during the administration of Democratic President Barack Obama on the so-called 401 provision of the Clean Water Act. The measure required companies to get certifications from states before building interstate pipelines and projects approved by the federal government. In 2017, Washington Governor Jay Inslee, a Democrat and 2020 candidate for president, used the provision to block a permit for the Millennium Bulk Terminal, a coal export facility that would have expanded the ability of companies to send Western coal to Asian markets.Inslee, who has centered his campaign on tackling climate change, said Trump's orders would put the country on a "fatal path" of unconstrained fossil fuel use and hold back clean energy development.'EVERY TOOL AT OUR DISPOSAL'The orders are part of the Trump administration's "energy dominance" policy to increase oil, gas and coal production, but forcing the EPA changes will take time. A senior administration official told reporters the agency would have to follow normal procedures, including a comment period, and that projects already tied up in litigation "are obviously a much longer-term issue." A lawyer with experience in energy regulation in the U.S. government said it was unclear how much impact the orders would have. A change in the clean water law's requirement for companies to get permits from the states would have to be made in Congress, said Fred Jauss, a partner at the firm Dorsey & Whitney. Michael Brune, the chief of the Sierra Club, which sues the government frequently, said the group would fight the orders "with every tool at our disposal."One order directs the transportation secretary to propose allowing liquefied natural gas, a liquid form of the fuel, to be shipped in approved rail cars. The orders also give the president the power to issue permits for projects that span international borders, taking that power from the secretary of state. Trump issued a presidential permit last month for the long-delayed Keystone XL pipeline to bring crude from Canada.Canadian pipeline operator Enbridge Inc supports the orders' "focus on enhancing the predictability of the permitting process and the critical importance of investing in energy infrastructure in the U.S. and Canada," company spokesman Michael Barnes said. Enbridge had an oil pipeline project from Canada to the United States halted by opposition in Michigan. The orders could also speed projects in Texas. Energy investors vying for permits to build oil export terminals along the Gulf Coast say they have worked closely with Trump officials in a bid to speed regulatory reviews of facilities capable of loading supertankers. U.S. and state agencies overseeing permit applications have taken too long to approve projects, the investors said, adding they were worried their projects would miss the most profitable years of the U.S. crude export boom. AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - British Prime Minister Theresa May is considering a new plan to introduce legislation that would allow lawmakers to thrash out a compromise Brexit deal among themselves, if talks with the opposition Labour party fail, The Guardian reported on Tuesday.A plan has been discussed to bring forward the withdrawal agreement bill, which could be a way to attempt to bypass a further 'meaningful vote' on May's deal in parliament, the newspaper said, citing unnamed cabinet sources. AdvertisementSupported byBy John SchwartzWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.As the fight continues over President Trump’s demand to extend the border wall between the United States and Mexico, one thing is clear: Whatever the wall’s effect on immigration might be, it would have an impact on the environment of the borderlands.About 650 miles of border wall already exist along the 2,000-mile boundary between the two countries. Most of it has been built on federal land where the terrain provides no natural barrier. Mr. Trump has called for a 1,000-mile wall, which would extend farther across land that includes important habitats for wildlife.A Customs and Border Protection policy says the agency “will integrate environmental stewardship and sustainability practices into operations and activities.” But Congress has given the agency the power to waive environmental protections like the Endangered Species Act. Such laws could require the government to produce an in-depth environmental impact analysis of a new project, develop less-damaging alternatives and perform environmental monitoring after construction.A spokesman for Customs and Border Protection was unavailable because of the partial government shutdown, a result of the political standoff over funding for the wall.An article published last year in the journal Bioscience, which has been signed by more than 2,900 scientists, said the administration’s plan would “threaten some of the continent’s most biologically diverse regions” by blocking free movement of many species and contributing to flooding. More than 1,500 native animal and plant species would be affected by the wall, the paper said, including 62 listed as endangered or vulnerable.Here are some of the possible effects that an extended border wall could have on wildlife.An extended border wall would impede the movement of many species and would put creatures already under pressure in peril.Aaron D. Flesch, a research scientist at the University of Arizona, said he had no doubt that endlessly inventive humans could scale a wall. But it would block many four-legged creatures, he said.Even some low-flying birds like the ferruginous pygmy-owl could have trouble. “You think a bird’s just going to fly over a wall, but that’s not necessarily the case,” Dr. Flesch said.Animals need to be able to move around, to find food and mates, among other things. An outbreak of fire or disease, or the pressures of climate change, can force them to seek new homes. And the pockets of the landscape that suit them can be widely dispersed.Small populations of endangered animals — such as the Mexican gray wolf, or lobo, and the Sonoran pronghorn — may be stranded on either side of the border, leaving some species likelier to die out. “For a critter that’s nearly extinct in the U.S., you need to promote connectivity, not curtail it,” Dr. Flesch said.Even a less-than-solid wall that incorporates bollards or “slats,” as Mr. Trump has sometimes proposed, could disrupt wildlife, Dr. Flesch said. While some smaller animals would be able to slip through, even the low, permeable vehicle barriers already erected in some areas can act as “behavioral barriers” to some species like the Sonoran pronghorn, which are “open country runners that avoid fences,” he said.Researchers have identified a number of creatures at risk that are rare in the Southern United States, though some have larger populations in Mexico. Vulnerable species in Texas’ Lower Rio Grande Valley include the ocelot and the black bear, according to University of Texas scientists. The National Wildlife Federation has also warned of problems for desert bighorn sheep and called the erection of a continuous wall “one of the biggest potential ecological disasters of our time.”Low-flying insects could be affected by a border wall, too. The University of Texas researchers named the endangered wildflower Zapata bladderpod and the threatened whiskerbush cactus as particularly at risk, and the National Wildlife Federation named the Quino checkerspot butterfly, among others.Many pollinators are already in decline because of habitat loss, said Scott Hoffman Black, executive director of the Xerces Society, a conservation organization with a focus on invertebrates. “This is one more issue that is going to put stress on bees and butterflies, and they’re already stressed with many, many issues,” he said. The long new stretches of a wall, with clear-cut “enforcement zones” to the south, could prove an impediment to many little fliers.Another expert expressed doubt that the wall itself would prove much of a barrier to flying insects, but he said the wall would nonetheless present an enormous problem for some of them.The expert, David L. Wagner, a professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at the University of Connecticut, noted that most insects can fly high enough to surmount a wall. But the array of lights that would be part of any such construction, he said, would disrupt the lives of nocturnal creatures like moths and even vertebrates that depend on darkness.“Light pollution is turning out to be a real problem for nocturnal animals,” he said. “You’re pulling at the fabric of these ecosystems.”Of course, there are illuminated buildings in many places. But Dr. Wagner said there was little difference between a border wall and a Walmart. Either way, he said, “It’s slaughter.”Construction would disrupt several pieces of land that have been designated part of the National Wildlife Refuge System, as well as other treasures like the National Butterfly Center, a private nature preserve along the Rio Grande in Mission, Tex. Construction into the 100-acre sanctuary could begin as soon as next month, splitting off some 70 acres from the American side of the site.After an outcry from environmentalists and local officials, Congress voted last year to protect one environmental jewel, the Santa Ana National Wildlife Refuge, a 2,100-acre “ecological crossroads” for migratory birds near McAllen, Tex., by refusing to appropriate money that would build the wall through it.But environmental advocates say the areas that will go unprotected are vast, and the losses to biodiversity will stretch far beyond the thin line of the border. As Texas Monthly put it, “Federal Border Wall Funding Spares Wildlife Refuge, but Not Much Else.”Because of the richness of the environment along many stretches of the border, the area draws tourists for hunting and fishing — and, to a great extent, ecotourism.Birders have spotted more than 500 species in the four counties that make up the Lower Rio Grande Valley. A 2011 study from Texas A&M University estimated that bird watching and other forms of environmental tourism brought more than $344 million in economic activity to the area, and some 4,400 jobs.The authors of the article in Bioscience, including Dr. Flesch, said the government should protect the “cultural value” of the borderlands. “National security can and must be pursued with an approach that preserves our natural heritage,” they wrote.Noxious sewage contaminated with feces, industrial chemicals and other raw waste crosses the border through the binational New River.The New River, which flows across the border between Calexico, Ca., and Mexicali, Mexico, has long been contaminated with sewage and industrial waste.CreditCreditEmily Kask for The New York TimesSupported byBy Jose A. Del RealCALEXICO, Calif. — For generations, residents of the Southern California border town of Calexico watched with trepidation as their river turned into a cesspool, contaminated by the booming human and industrial development on the other side of the border in Mexico.Noxious sewage filled with feces, industrial chemicals and other raw waste regularly comes in through the New River, which flows from Mexico’s Mexicali Valley and through Calexico, leaving neighborhoods along the waterway engulfed in pungent fumes. And it’s not just the river: From above, smoke billows from Mexican factories, illicit medical burn sites and tire pits, fueling widespread asthma in the region.As Washington debates spending billions to shore up barriers along the 2,000-mile southwest border, many residents in California’s Imperial Valley feel at least some of that money could be spent to address the region’s public health threats. Just feet away from Calexico, Mexico’s lax environmental rules and enforcement pose a regular menace.“It’s a pit of infection,” said Arturo Santiago, 50, who lives in a neighborhood adjacent to the river in west Calexico, atop a steep overlook. “It smells like farts if you open your window.”Mexico has long treated the New River as a drain rather than a river, discharging raw, untreated sewage from Mexicali homes and businesses directly into the water. The explosive growth of Mexicali into a city of a million people in recent decades, in part accelerated by the North American Free Trade Agreement, has exacerbated the problem.Today, even after various cleanup efforts, large mounds of unnatural foam and piles of trash — illegally dumped — float atop the dark green stream, which flows into the United States through a hole in a slatted border fence and flows north toward the Salton Sea in California.A 2018 report published by the regional water board shows that the river, where it crosses the border, contains extreme fecal coliform and E. coli concentrations that are orders of magnitude beyond established targets, because of the tens of millions of gallons of raw sewage that have been dumped into the river in recent years.State lawmakers have noted that the river is believed to carry pathogens that cause tuberculosis, encephalitis, polio, cholera, hepatitis, and typhoid. But Calexico, a small town of 40,000 in California’s Imperial Valley farm belt, has had little recourse but to endure the public health risks.Miguel Figueroa, Calexico’s assistant city manager, called the river a “historic environmental justice problem.” The westside homes adjacent to the river have historically been occupied by low-income residents, many of whom work in agriculture. Their relative poverty, plus the Imperial Valley’s lack of political clout in Sacramento, he said, were significant obstacles to drawing sustained attention to the river.Many have called for enclosing the river and diverting its waters to filter out pollutants.Those living near the river are not the only ones with concerns. The river also poses a security issue for border agents, said David Kim, a spokesman for Customs and Border Protection. “Smuggling organizations still use the New River to move humans into the U.S.,” said Mr. Kim, noting that border agents are unable to go into the water to chase border violators because it is too hazardous.The air pollution concerns also have been worrying. Gilbert Rebollar, a board member of the Brawley Elementary School District, to the north of Calexico, said students regularly cannot go outside because the air quality is too dangerous. About 20 percent of children in Imperial County have asthma, according to a 2016 California Health Interview Survey, roughly twice the state average. That number may be higher in towns directly adjacent to the border.“There is a crisis here but it has nothing to do with immigration,” said Mr. Rebollar, who is also an analyst at the Imperial County Air Pollution Control District. “And it’s not just about money. It’s about holding Mexico accountable. Some of these hospitals are going out at night and burning medical waste.”Mr. Santiago, like many people living in the neighborhoods overlooking the river, said he had gone through about four air-conditioning units since he moved into his house in 2000. He and his neighbors suspect the corrosion damage is caused by chemicals in the air, though the local air pollution control board said it was not aware of these complaints.Rebeca and Miguel Zapata, whose grandson, Kevin, 15, often visits and has severe asthma, said they moved to the neighborhood adjacent to the river in the 1990s because the homes were cheaper there. Ms. Zapata, 76, said her allergies have become so severe she has to go to the doctor weekly for treatment.Public health officials in the region said allergies are difficult to pin to specific environmental causes. But fears and suspicions in the community persist.Nearly 20 years ago, the Environmental Protection Agency granted $31 million to pay for sanitation projects on the Mexican side of the border, completed in 2007, to improve the water quality before it reached the United States. That project, funded by North American Development Bank, which was created by Nafta, encased the river on the Mexican side in piping. No such piping was installed on the American side.But by May 2017, the regional California Water Quality Control Board was raising fresh alarms. In spite of progress, “the deteriorating condition of the sewage infrastructure” built in Mexico posed a severe threat to the water quality, the board wrote in a resolution addressed to several federal and international agencies. At least once a month, for at least six months, one million to 13 million gallons of raw sewage were released into the river by Mexicali, the water board said.Many along the border have groused about funding for water treatment projects not going to the American side.“It’s been really hard to digest and understand that American resources are going into Mexico,” said Mr. Figueroa, the assistant city manager. “It’s shameful, because the last time we checked Imperial County is in the state of California.”Community efforts to redevelop the river on the American side have faced delays over 15 years. About two dozens stakeholders at the local, state, and federal level have some oversight responsibility for the New River. The bureaucratic glut is perhaps partly to blame for the delays.“For crying out loud, when you have environmental problems that are that prevalent, that are affecting human beings and human health, that should be at the very top of the list,” said Eduardo Garcia, a Democratic member of the State Assembly who has sought to bring attention to the problem in the State Legislature.Two crucial developments have revived the cleanup efforts. In 2016 the state allocated $1.4 million to draft an engineering plan to begin collecting and treating the water. Then, in 2018, a state proposition allocated $10 million toward the project, part of a broader package to rehabilitate the Salton Sea.Mr. Figueroa is hopeful that, with enough money now to get the project off the ground, local officials can use the momentum to find the additional $10 million to $20 million they need to complete the project.“For the longest time we heard that we needed a shovel-ready project. And guess what, we have a shovel-ready project now and we have partial funding,” he said.There has been more success and investment in combating the air quality problems. The California Environmental Protection Agency said it maintains strong relationships with its Mexican counterparts. Federal money, meanwhile, has bolstered air-quality monitoring programs in Mexicali, which help Mexican authorities crack down on illegal trash-burning.Jared Blumenfeld, the new secretary of the California Environmental Protection Agency under Gov. Gavin Newsom, said the state was “committed to doing the project” on the New River. He shared a video from a visit to Mexicali in 2011 that showed blood draining into the river from a slaughterhouse.Mr. Blumenfeld said he would be “fairly shocked” if money for the New River were not included on a new list of federal funding priorities. “We as a country have not made good on our commitments under Nafta to continue to make border improvements, and the New River is so emblematic of this,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa D. MickeyMinimizing manicured grass isn’t the first thing that comes to mind when you think of improvements to a high-end golf course.But Sailfish Point Golf Club on Hutchinson Island on Florida’s east coast, did just that. Now, butterflies have moved in where native grasses and flowers have been allowed to grow tall.Across the state, on Sanibel Island, the Sanctuary Golf Club ripped out concrete cart paths and brought in beehives to help pollinate the local wildflowers.In Skidaway, Ga., near Savannah, the Landings Club dug a new irrigation system to lower water consumption, and it built nesting areas for a native terrapin rescue program.Golf courses and environmental initiatives haven’t always coexisted. But today, many course superintendents — the men and women who plan and maintain courses — hope to reshape that thinking.Sustainability efforts are often “motivated by economics,” said Max Adler, the editorial director of Golf Digest. “The whole industry is seeing a correction away from the very manicured, overmanufactured look of golf—and at the same time what really motivates golf courses to pursue that look is the bottom line. The less water you use, the less grass grows, the less maintenance you have to cover.”In the last 10 years, he said, many clubs have replaced manicured areas of their courses “with sand, with native floras and shrubs that exist naturally on the topography and just leave it. And it looks beautiful.”“If you’re doing things that are economically sound, it’s often in line with what you are doing environmentally,” said James Murphy, an extension specialist in turf management at Rutgers University in New Jersey.Players and residents also are demanding more eco-friendly practices.“It’s very important to people now that the community they live in respects the environment and takes care of it,” said Kristen Cheskaty, a broker and a managing partner at Sailfish Point Realty in Stuart, Fla.Because of that, golf communities in the United States and elsewhere in the world are focusing on things as varied as eliminating plastic and foam cups in their snack shops and reducing fertilizers and chemicals in the upkeep of the fairways.“All the little things add up,” Mr. Adler said. “Even though it’s a small footprint for the day, over the course of the season it’s real. More importantly it sends a message to people’s minds that we want to be thoughtful and sensitive to the environment.”Florida’s Sailfish Point has followed guidelines created by a not-for-profit environmental education organization called Audubon International, which offers a certification program for good golf-course management practices.Sailfish Point — a private 532-acre waterfront development with 520 low-rise homes, condominiums and townhouses — is bordered on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, the Fort Pierce Inlet to the north, and the Indian River Lagoon to the west.But in recent years, the lagoon has suffered from extensive algae blooms that most experts believe are related to discharge from Lake Okeechobeee, which is surrounded by farmland and polluted by fertilizer runoff.Scott MacPhee, the director of golf course operations at Sailfish Point, said many residents were concerned about any role the golf course could play in contributing to such pollution.“A lot of fingers could easily be pointed at our community and our operation, and I didn’t want that for our members,” Mr. MacPhee said. “Whether the blame is on golf courses, farms or septic tanks, ultimately, we all want to do the right thing and we all want clean water.”More than 800 golf courses in the United States and 2,100 courses in 34 countries have been certified by Audubon International.At Sailfish Point, earning the certificate took about two years. The work began in 2016 and included an environmental assessment and developing a wildlife and habitat management plan; reducing chemical use; and stepping up water conservation. In some areas, the golf course staff planted vegetation buffer zones, allowing growth of mangrove trees and aquatic plants to form a barrier between the golf course and waterways.Mark Perry, the executive director at the Florida Oceanographic Society in Stuart, who has consulted with the staff at Sailfish Point, said that the development’s buffer zones are “good common practice to let the shoreline vegetation help absorb nutrients” that can be damaging to the environment.Although Audubon International began the certification program around 30 years ago, a degree of confusion still exists about its relationship with the 114-year-old National Audubon Society, a nonprofit conservation group with the mission “to protect birds and the places they need, today and tomorrow.” The two are separate, unrelated entities.In Georgia, Chris Steigelman, who oversees three of the six Audubon International-certified golf courses at the Landings, said the certification process included installing a more drought-tolerant turf grass with a deeper root zone and a more effective irrigation system, which cost more than $10 million. Those steps have enabled the Landings to reduce water use by nearly 40 percent on its courses, he said.The Landings, situated within tidal salt marshes and the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, is also popular with native Diamondback Terrapins, which had a risky habit of depositing their eggs in golf course bunkers.Carolyn McInerney, a local real estate agent who lives at the Landings, began the Diamondback Terrapin Rescue Project by placing the eggs in little flower pots on her back porch.“Now, we have five different nest boxes built around the golf course with community signs telling people about the program, as well as terrapin hatchling release parties,” Mr. Steigelman said. “It’s become a big community project.”In addition to the terrapin nests, the Landings has a system of bluebird boxes installed throughout its courses, monitored by community volunteers; pollinator gardens with native plantings for bees and butterflies; and a bird-cam to monitor owl, eagle and osprey nesting.“People are looking for quality of life and that truly sells the island,” Ms. McInerney said. “More and more people are interested in nature.”Meredith Welch moved to Skidaway Island in 2008 after working for 20 years in New York City. She said she had been attracted to a place where she could be outdoors all year“When I became a resident here, I couldn’t believe I could sit in my backyard and watch hawks, fox, deer and an amazing parade of animals walk through because there are no fences between neighbors,” she said.After seeing the benefits of certification for the golf courses at the Landing, Ms. Welch helped start an effort to get Audubon certification for the city’s residential section, a process that took five years.“We have a right to clean water and clean air,” Ms. Welch said. “And we can learn that we should protect things that are fragile and precious.”In southwest Florida, the Sanctuary stands out for its location.The community and its course, which has been certified by Audubon International, are surrounded by the 6,300-acre J.N. Ding Darling National Wildlife Refuge — home to more than 300 species of birds, 50 species of reptiles and more than 30 mammal species. Two-thirds of the island is protected land.“If you’re going to be buying real estate on Sanibel Island, you’ve already bought into the environmental side of things and you probably already get it,” said Kyle Sweet, the superintendent at the Sanctuary Golf Club, the island’s only private course.Mr. Sweet not only maintains his course to Audubon International standards, but he also is guided by the wildlife refuge, as well as by rigid city requirements. Water quality and chemical nutrient loads are regularly monitored and the city issues an annual grade.Even residences are regulated in regard to impermeable surfaces, such as driveways. The Sanctuary has removed more than a mile and a half of concrete cart paths from the course.The course has also converted to hardier, salt-tolerant turf grass and upgraded its irrigation system for a 30 percent savings in water use.“We have a lot of members who are on the board at the Sanibel-Captiva Conservation Foundation and Ding Darling National Wildlife Refuge,” said Kathryn Riggio, the membership coordinator at the Sanctuary. “They are very invested in our environmental responsibility.”AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader says he returned to work after blowing the whistle at the E.P.A.To the Editor:Re “Whistle-Blower Did the Unexpected: She Returned to Work” (news article, April 2), about Tricia Newbold, a manager in the White House Personnel Security Office, who said officials had overruled career staff members who denied security clearances:Why are you surprised that a whistle-blower went back to work? I was a whistle-blower at the Environmental Protection Agency and went back to work for 20 years and continued to blow the whistle, as did several of my whistle-blowing colleagues. That’s the law. AdvertisementSupported byThe Trump administration is moving to ease standards on a particularly deadly air contaminant.By John BalmesDr. Balmes is a medical professor and member of the California Air Resources Board.PM 2.5 kills people. There has been little dispute that microscopic particulate matter in air pollution penetrates into the deepest parts of the lungs and contributes to the early deaths each year of thousands of people in the United States with heart and lung disease. One recent study called PM 2.5 “the largest environmental risk factor worldwide,” responsible for many more deaths than alcohol use, physical inactivity or high sodium intake. The Environmental Protection Agency’s own website says: “Numerous scientific studies have linked particle pollution exposure to a variety of problems, including: premature death in people with heart or lung disease, nonfatal heart attacks, irregular heartbeat, aggravated asthma, decreased lung function, increased respiratory symptoms.”Which makes it deeply troubling that the very people at the helm of the Trump administration’s E.P.A. responsible for protecting public health and the environment are now pursuing a course that would make the air we breathe even more hazardous.Last week, a recently reconstituted panel of science advisers to the E.P.A., the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, sharply questioned the agency’s longstanding position that particulate pollution is causally linked with premature death, and it called for a new assessment of the pollutant. In a  letter to the E.P.A. administrator, Andrew Wheeler, the committee’s chairman, Louis Anthony Cox Jr., said the agency had not provided “a sufficiently comprehensive, systematic assessment of the available science.” This is despite the fact that epidemiological studies from around the world have shown a robust association between real-world exposure to PM 2.5 and premature mortality.The committee’s action is clearly a step toward weakening the standard for fine particulates and other air pollutants and would erode a central objective of the Clean Air Act, the 1970 law that is a pillar of the agency’s mission of protecting public health.That law requires the E.P.A. to set standards, or limits, on certain so-called priority air pollutants at levels “requisite to protect public health” with “an adequate margin of safety” based on a review of the scientific knowledge about that pollutant. The agency does this by evaluating peer-reviewed scientific evidence and making a decision based on the weight of that evidence. Once the agency determines the standards, cities and counties must reduce their pollution to meet those limits.PM 2.5, or fine particulate matter, is a mix of microscopic particles and liquid droplets. Some of it is emitted from construction sites, unpaved roads and fires. Most of it results from the combustion of fossil fuels and is emitted from power plants, industrial smokestacks and motor vehicles. Its tiny particles (smaller than 2.5 microns) are less than one-thirtieth the diameter of a human hair and are easily inhaled. On days when PM 2.5 levels spike, more people with heart and lung disease die than on cleaner days. Living in a place with chronically high levels of PM 2.5, as people do in Los Angeles, Pittsburgh and the San Joaquin Valley in California, for instance, increases one’s risk of dying prematurely.For years, anti-regulatory forces, including some members of Congress, have been trying to characterize epidemiology, the study of disease and health outcomes in populations, as “pseudoscience.” They have argued that epidemiological studies should not be used to set air quality standards because the health effects of air pollution are hopelessly confounded by other risk factors, like poverty, poor diet, smoking and diabetes. This view contradicts decades of public health and medical science accepted by the National Academies of Science and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, among others.No matter. The administration’s previous E.P.A. administrator, Scott Pruitt, last year broke with decades of standard practice when he appointed members of the Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee, and his appointments included only one academic scientist and no epidemiologist. Mr. Wheeler further weakened the agency’s review process by disbanding a 20-member advisory panel for PM 2.5 that included highly qualified epidemiologists. (I served on that panel).Dr. Cox, the current chairman of the clean air committee, runs a Denver-based applied research company. He has been pushing a narrow statistical approach that would exclude most epidemiological studies from consideration by the E.P.A. in reviews of clean air standards. Unfortunately, there is no longer an epidemiologist on the committee to challenge Dr. Cox’s view.In a letter to Dr. Cox, I joined with 16 former members of the committee and the recently dismissed PM 2.5 review panel, some who served on both, to express our concern about the process and scientific substance of the PM 2.5 review now underway. In addition, over 200 air pollution and public health experts have urged the E.P.A. to reconvene the disbanded PM 2.5 review panel. The Clean Air Scientific Advisory Committee is aggressively and irresponsibly challenging the abundant and well established evidence of the dangers of fine particulate matter. More than 23 million Americans live in areas where air pollution exceeds the PM 2.5 standards. If the E.P.A. revises air pollution standards that reject the weight of the evidence, the health of millions of Americans will be put at risk, and lives will be cut short.John Balmes is a professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco, and of environmental health sciences at the University of California, Berkeley. He is the physician member of the California Air Resources Board and a volunteer for the American Lung Association.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressTALLAHASSEE, Fla. — A report says a company doing pollution cleanup at a shuttered Florida reform school may have found more graves of the nearly 100 boys estimated to have died there. The Tampa Bay Times reports that Geosyntec told the Florida Department of Environmental Protection last month that a subcontractor using ground-penetrating radar found 27 so-called anomalies that could be unmarked graves near the Arthur G. Dozier School for Boys.University of South Florida researchers have previously documented 55 graves near the school, though they estimate nearly 100 boys died there between 1900 and 1973. Permanently closed since 2011, the school is near Marianna, some 60 miles (96 kilometers) west of Tallahassee.Gov. Ron DeSantis sent a letter Wednesday to Florida agencies directing them to work with local officials on the matter.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Dutch drivers seeking to offset their impact on the environment will soon be able to do so at Shell petrol stations with credits to support initiatives such as tree-planting projects. The scheme is due to launch in the Netherlands this month before being expanded to other countries, the oil major said on Monday as it outlined plans to invest $300 million (£230 million) in the programme over the next three years as part of its clean energy budget of up to $2 billion a year.The programme is similar to schemes used by some airlines and counts towards Shell's target to cut its net carbon footprint by 2-3 percent within three years, including so-called Scope 3 emissions generated by customers rather than the company's own operations.Other energy giants, such as BP and Total, have not yet committed to cutting Scope 3 emissions.Shell's investment will mean the credits incur no extra cost for customers who choose Shell V-Power petrol or diesel. Those who fill up with regular Shell petrol or diesel can participate for an additional 1 cent a litre."Shell buys these credits from a global portfolio of nature-based projects ... Each carbon credit is subject to a third-party verification process and represents the avoidance or removal of 1 tonne of carbon dioxide," Shell said.The scheme will have to be scaled up to have a big environmental effect, said Shell's head of Integrated Gas and New Energies, Maarten Wetselaar.The voluntary and compliance-based markets for carbon credits covered around 30-40 million tonnes of CO2 in 2017, Shell estimates.HUGE CHALLENGEAt benchmark prices, Shell estimates $300 million can buy around 60 million tonnes of carbon, with one litre of diesel or gasoline accounting for about 2.5 kg of carbon. But the challenge is huge. Research cited by Shell said a reduction of 11 billion tonnes of CO2 a year - equivalent to the emissions of the United States and European Union combined - would account for about a third of reductions needed to keep global warming under 2 degrees celsius."The key thing we're trying to achieve is to help customers decarbonise their energy usage," Wetselaar said."If we can do that over time by building a profitable business generating carbon credits at a cheaper cost than the market price, then we'll obviously take that."Dutch drivers will be able to use the credits for what Shell described as "carbon neutral" driving from April 17. The scheme will then expand to other countries, starting with Britain later this year.Oil majors have also been expanding gas operations and buying into electricity-related projects among efforts to future-proof their businesses for a lower-carbon world.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThe U.S. oil and gas industry is praised by supporters for boosting America to the forefront of global production and attacked by critics who blame it for sowing doubt about the scientific consensus that burning fossil fuels is changing the Earth's climate.The American Petroleum Institute is the energy industry's lobbyist in Washington. These days it is led by Mike Sommers, previously the chief of staff for former Republican House Speaker John Boehner.Recently Sommers talked with The Associated Press about the energy industry, climate change, offshore drilling and other issues. His answers here have been edited for brevity.Q. The U.S. is now the world's biggest oil producer. What does that mean for the industry and investors?A. The most important component is what it means to the United States. It's given our lawmakers an incredible amount of flexibility to help lead the world. No longer are we subject to the whims of an oil cartel in the Middle East. We're the world's swing oil and gas producer, and that's exciting for American leadership.Q. At a recent big energy conference in Houston, there was talk by Shell and BP about investing in renewables. Are U.S. oil companies going to be left behind?A. I don't think there's any threat of them being left behind ... They are committed to reducing their methane emissions.Q. Are you worried about Norway's sovereign wealth fund reducing its oil and gas holdings? Could other investors follow?A. This industry of course relies on the availability of capital, and you know we're continuing to focus on making sure that investors in this industry understand everything that this industry has done to reduce the environmental footprint while meeting consumer demands for more affordable energy.Q. Is current U.S. production sustainable?A. The reports that we look at, particularly (the U.S. Energy Information Administration), project that this continued production within the United States is going to go on for a long time. The United States as a leader in this space is good of course for the American consumer, but it's good for American industry as well. The (International Energy Agency) report that I recently saw was that even under the rosiest scenarios for renewables, oil and natural gas will still provide over 50 percent of the world's energy needs in 2050. So the future is bright for this industry.Q. Will U.S. offshore oil drilling increase?A. We need access to these offshore resources to continue to supply the American consumer's demand for these products, so we're working with the administration to make sure that these resources are available (for) the opening up of new resources off both the Atlantic coast and the Gulf of Mexico.Q. You've given up on the California coast?A. Our focus is really on the Atlantic and continued exploration in the Gulf Coast.Q. Are you happy with the Trump administration on energy?A. This is an administration that has really focused on what they call the energy-dominance agenda, and I think that they have been really focused on making sure that consumers have access to safe, reliable and affordable energy that is also produced in an environmentally-sustainable way. That's what this industry delivers on every single day.Q. In your state of the industry speech, you seemed to dismiss the Green New Deal.A. We know that climate change is real, but we also know that the solutions to climate change have to be real as well. This country has undergone a real energy revolution in the last 12 years as a consequence of the fracking boom in the United States, and that has allowed for (a shift) from coal to natural gas, and that has led to the air being cleaner today than it has been in a generation.Q. Are environmentalists wrong because they think we should move directly to renewables and not use natural gas as a so-called bridge fuel?A. Of course wind has a future in the United States, and of course so does solar, but natural gas has to be around when the sun doesn't shine and the wind doesn't blow. Consumers are demanding more sustainable fuels. This industry is responding to that, but they also continue to demand that those fuels be affordable, and that's what natural gas has delivered on and will continue to deliver on I think for many, many generations to come.Q. Even in places like the Permian Basin in West Texas there is some local opposition or concern about the impact of fracking on water use, truck traffic and pollution. What's API doing about that?A. One of the reasons why those continue to be concerns is because we don't have the infrastructure built up to support the energy boom. So I do think that those issues are going to continue to diminish as we are able particularly to build pipelines to these communities to support the boom that's going on, particularly in the Permian. But you know some of the same people that are complaining about that environmental impact of trucks, etc. are also those that are blocking the infrastructure. There are new technologies that are being advanced in the oil fields today to make sure that we are recycling water, for example.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Elizabeth Warren is vowing to prohibit new fossil fuel leasing on public lands if she's elected president, one of several new energy proposals she rolled out on Monday before a campaign swing in two Western states.Warren, a U.S. senator from Massachusetts, already has launched more than a half-dozen new proposals since entering the Democratic presidential primary , outpacing her many rivals in a calculated bid to lead 2020's ideas race. The latest addition to her policy agenda aims to reverse the significant climb in drilling on public lands under President Donald Trump while fleshing out her approach to climate change, a key issue for her party's liberal base.Besides an executive order barring new fossil fuel leases on public lands on shore and offshore, Warren said Monday that she would work toward boosting U.S. electricity generation from renewable sources offshore or on public lands. Her plan also includes free entry to national parks, the reinstatement of Obama-era environmental policies Trump rolled back and the creation of a service program to help maintain public lands."Any serious effort to address climate change must include public lands — fossil fuel extraction in these areas is responsible for nearly a quarter of all U.S. greenhouse gas emissions," Warren wrote in a Monday blog post announcing her proposals.Warren is set to discuss the public lands policies this week during campaign stops in South Carolina, Colorado and Utah.Her proposals, particularly the bid to end new fossil fuel leasing on public lands, are likely to draw plaudits from environmental groups while running afoul of the oil and gas industry, which has benefited from millions of acres of public land offered for lease since Trump took office. Advocacy groups had urged then-President Barack Obama to halt new leases on federal land without success.However, the Trump administration's plans for new offshore drilling have sparked legal challenges of their own, including one affecting tests on the Atlantic coast that's backed by the Republican attorney general of South Carolina.Dan Naatz, senior vice president at the Independent Petroleum Association of America, warned that Warren's proposal to end new fossil fuel leases on public lands "would damage our economy and negatively impact job growth in communities" nationwide."The royalties, rental fees and bonus bid revenues" from leasing, Naatz said in a statement, "which are evenly split between the federal government and the states where the development occurred, play a vital role in the state and local economies of states and tribal communities."AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPARIS — Drinks group Pernod Ricard, which is being targeted by activist investor Elliott, is banking that its push into socially and environmentally sound business practices will boost its growth in the coming decade. Pernod, the world's second-biggest spirits group behind Diageo, is unveiling on Wednesday a strategic roadmap plan going up to 2030.That plan includes eight pledges to undertake socially responsible business habits, such as preserving and looking after the land used to produce its Martell cognac or Mumm champagne brands.Other pledges include aims to save water and cut down on waste and carbon emissions, as well as fighting alcohol abuse and promoting gender balance in its top management teams.Companies around the world are tweaking business models to ensure they capture the current vogue for having strong environmental, social and corporate governance habits ('ESG').This is partly to win over "Millennial" customers who are often keen to help the environment, and to attract investments from funds that specialize in putting trillions of dollars into companies screened for having good ethical criteria."It's about making sure we have a very cohesive plan of action that addresses all aspects of our business from grain to glass," said Pernod executive Vanessa Wright, speaking to Reuters ahead of the publication of the new Pernod plan.BROADER PLANS TO BOOST PROFITSPernod - together with peers such as Diageo, Danone and Nestle - is looking to respond to new demands from consumers choosing healthier diets and lifestyles seen as helping the environment and communities.Wright, who is group vice-president for Sustainability & Responsibility at Pernod, said the new ethical pledges formed part of Pernod's broader plan to lift profits and sales, with the French company under pressure from Elliott. New York hedge fund Elliott Management wants Pernod to improve profit margins and corporate governance.Pernod, which also makes Absolut vodka and Jameson whiskey, has already vowed to raise operating margins by 50-60 basis points each year between now and 2021, provided it can deliver annual organic sales growth of 4-7 percent.Pernod is also promising to close the gender pay gap across its business by 2022.In the last eight years, some 95 percent of Pernod's vineyards have been awarded formal certificates to show they do not harm the environment, while those vineyards have also cut back on the amount of water used and their carbon emissions. "A lot of these actions will create long-term value. Value will also come from consumers being more attracted to our brands and we will also save some costs," said Wright.By 2030, Pernod is committing to halve its carbon footprint levels from 2.84 million tonnes per year at present.AdvertisementSupported byLogging, mining and development loom over the Northern Rockies.By Mike Garrity and Carole KingMr. Garrity, a fifth-generation Montanan, is the executive director of Alliance for the Wild Rockies. Ms. King is a singer-songwriter and alliance member who has lived in Idaho for more than 40 years. The Northern Rockies are surely near the top of the list of the world’s most spectacular landscapes. Its ranges contain one of the last great expanses of biodiversity left in the continental United States, including most of the species that were there when Lewis and Clark first passed through in 1805 on their journey of discovery.These attributes alone would be reason enough to protect this region. Instead, the Trump administration has been pushing oil, gas, mining, and logging projects, and removing legal protections from threatened species. To be fair, the Obama administration also pursued some of those actions. But the current administration’s zealotry threatens the region’s wild landscape and rich biodiversity. It’s up to all of us who care about the environment, science and preserving wild places for our children to resist such efforts. Legislation recently introduced in the House would protect a vast swath of this region. But until that law is enacted, we’ll have to rely on the judiciary. Along with other organizations and Indian tribes in the Northern Rockies, our group, Alliance for the Wild Rockies, has been fighting threats to the region in court. Fortunately, this past year has brought some encouraging news. But the court system alone will not provide the protection this area needs and deserves.In August, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit voted unanimously to halt a planned 125-square-mile logging and burning project in the Payette National Forest in western Idaho. The court concluded that parts of the project  ran counter to the forest’s management plan.Under that project, so many trees would have been cut that the forest would have no longer provided elk or deer with the cover they need. Forest streams would have been filled with sediment from bulldozers building miles of new logging roads — further damaging the native fisheries for which the Northern Rockies are internationally famous. According to the United States Forest Service’s own projections, taxpayers would have spent more than $12 million to subsidize the logging.On the same day of the Ninth Circuit ruling against the Payette project, a Federal District Court judge in Montana, Dana Christensen, granted a request by Alliance for the Wild Rockies and two other groups for an injunction temporarily stopping a logging and road building project along the northwestern border of Yellowstone National Park. Nearly 16 miles of logging roads would have been bulldozed through grizzly bear habitat. The judge concluded that the Forest Service had failed to consider how the project would affect the Canada lynx, which has been listed since 2000 as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act. Now the court is weighing whether to permanently block the project.Then, in September, Judge Christensen ordered the Yellowstone-area grizzly bears restored to full protection as a threatened species. When the federal government removed the bear’s protected status in June 2017, ignoring the concerns of scientists, environmentalists and tribal leaders, the State of Wyoming started gearing up for its first grizzly hunt in more than 40 years. But Judge Christensen ruled that the United States Fish and Wildlife Service had erred in removing the bear’s threatened status, siding with us and opponents of the hunt. The Interior Department is appealing this decision.This was a particularly important ruling because the loss of protected status could have opened the bears’ habitat to mining, logging, and development. But the fight to protect the landscape and its species is far from over. With the nation’s environmental laws under all-out attack by the Trump administration, victories in the judicial branch can get us only so far.That’s why Congress must act to protect the Northern Rockies. Legislation introduced recently in the House by Carolyn Maloney, Democrat of New York, and soon to be introduced in the Senate by Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, would designate 23 million acres of roadless public lands in Montana, Idaho, western Wyoming, and eastern Oregon and Washington as wilderness. The Northern Rockies Ecosystem Protection Act would also establish a system of vital biological corridors connecting smaller ecosystems within the Northern Rockies to protect native plants and animals. Restoring over one million acres of damaged habitat and watersheds would create jobs, and taxpayers would save millions of dollars that would otherwise be spent on road-building and logging projects in which private corporations cut down our public forests. A proposal recently introduced in Congress seeks to add 23 million acres of wilderness and designate key wildlife corridors.New wildernessGlacier National ParkWilderness recovery areaExisting wildernessNational parksBiological corridorsUnaffected federal landWashingtonMontanaYellowstoneNationalParkOregonWyomingIdaho100 milesNew wildernessGlacier National ParkWilderness recovery areaExisting wildernessWashingtonNational parksBiological corridorsUnaffected federal landMontanaYellowstoneNationalParkOregonIdahoWyoming100 milesExisting wildernessNational ParksWilderness recovery areaBiological corridorsExisting wildernessUnaffected federal landGlacier National Park100 milesWashingtonMontanaYellowstoneNationalParkOregonWyomingIdahoBy Baden Copeland/The New York Times; Source: Save America’s ForestsIn 1872, when Congress designated Yellowstone as the world’s first national park, America was the world leader in conservation. That reputation is fast eroding. By passing this legislation, Congress can help reverse this trend. Our group and others have been fighting for more than a quarter of a century to protect the ecosystems of the Northern Rockies that are the rightful heritage of all Americans and generations to come. With the support of an engaged public and insistence by an independent judiciary that this administration adhere to longstanding environmental laws, we will succeed.On June 12, 1805, Meriwether Lewis climbed a bluff in what is now Chouteau County, Mont. From this vantage, he was able to see wolves, antelope, mule deer and “immense herds of buffalo.” He added, “From this height we had a most beautiful and picturesque view of the Rocky Mountains, which were perfectly covered with snow.”They were, Lewis wrote in his journal, “an august spectacle.” Nearly 214 years later, parts of the Northern Rockies remain as they were when Lewis first saw its peaks. We must protect them so future generations can experience the grandeur that he beheld. AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The head of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency said on Thursday the agency would revise its proposed freeze of vehicle fuel economy standards before unveiling its final regulation in the coming months.In August, the EPA and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) proposed freezing requirements for new cars and trucks at 2020 levels through 2026 but EPA Administrator Andrew Wheeler said in an interview at the agency's headquarters "our final regulation is not going to be the same as our proposal.""We've taken constructive comments, criticisms, concerns from a whole host of different interest groups," Wheeler said. "I hope our final regulation is something that everybody can get behind and support."Two U.S. officials briefed on the matter said they expected the EPA to wind up requiring a small increase in the yearly fuel efficiency gains, likely around mid-June, but said the precise figure had not been finalized. It is also not clear what flexibilities will remain in the final rule.Obama-era rules adopted in 2012 called for a fleetwide fuel efficiency average of 46.7 miles per gallon by 2026, with average annual increases of nearly 5 percent, compared with 37 mpg by 2026 under the Trump administration’s preferred option.The administration's proposed changes would also strip California of the ability to impose its own state emissions standards or require a rising number of electric vehicles.The proposed fuel efficiency freeze would hike U.S. oil consumption by about 500,000 barrels per day by the 2030s, according to administration officials. Wheeler denied the rules were written at the behest of oil industry lobbyists."This has nothing to do with the oil industry. We're not doing this for the oil industry. I'm not doing this for the oil industry," Wheeler said.The Trump administration said in August that the freeze would save automakers more than $300 billion in regulatory costs and reduce the projected cost of a new vehicle by $1,850. It also said the measure would save lives because Americans would more quickly buy newer safer vehicles, a claim disputed by California and environmental groups.Automakers like General Motors Co, Ford Motor Co and Toyota Motor Corp oppose a freeze but want requirements reduced to account for changes in oil prices and consumer demand. All have pushed for a compromise deal to head off years of legal uncertainty. The White House in February ended talks with California to try to reach a deal. Reuters reported in March the White House had held meetings with automakers to push them to back it in its fight with California. California last week sued the EPA over its failure to provide data used to justify easing vehicle efficiency standards.. California and 16 other states had previously vowed to challenge any emissions rollback.Wheeler heaped scorn on California. "This is so much more about politics for the state of California than it is protecting the environment," Wheeler said.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — President Donald Trump will issue two executive orders in the heart of the Texas energy hub on Wednesday seeking to speed gas, coal and oil projects delayed by coastal states as he looks to build support ahead of next year's election.Trump's orders will direct his Environmental Protection Agency to change a part of the U.S. clean water law that has allowed states, on the basis of environmental reasons, to delay projects such as pipelines to carry natural gas to New England and coal export terminals on the West Coast.Trump will issue the orders at a training center for union members in the petroleum industry in Houston, an event sandwiched between fundraising events in Texas for the 2020 campaign. "Outdated federal guidance and regulations issued by the EPA have caused confusion and uncertainty leading to project delays, lost jobs and reduced economic performance," a senior administration official told reporters in a conference call. "We are not trying to take away power from the states, but we are trying to make sure that state actions comply with the statutory intent of the law."An environmentalist decried the planned orders. "Trump can try to rewrite regulations in favor of Big Oil, but he can't stop people power and our movement," said May Boeve, the head of 350.org.The orders will direct the EPA to review and update guidance issued during the administration of President Barack Obama on the so-called 401 provision of the Clean Water Act. The measure required companies to get certifications from states before building interstate pipelines approved by the federal government. New York state used it to block pipelines that would send natural gas to New England, forcing the region at times to import liquefied natural gas from countries including Russia.In 2017, Washington state Governor Jay Inslee, a Democrat and 2020 candidate for president, denied a water permit for the Millennium Bulk Terminal, a coal export facility that would have expanded the ability of companies to send western coal to Asian markets.'ENERGY DOMINANCE'The executive orders are part of the Trump administration's policy of "energy dominance" to increase oil, gas and coal production, but forcing the EPA changes will take time. The official said the agency would have to follow normal procedures, including a comment period, and that projects already tied up in litigation "are obviously a much longer-term issue." One of the orders will direct the transportation secretary to propose allowing liquefied natural gas, a liquid form of the fuel, to be shipped in approved rail cars, a change that could increase its flow between terminals and markets. The executive orders could also speed projects in Texas. Energy investors vying for permits to build oil export terminals along the Gulf Coast say they have worked closely with Trump officials in a bid to speed regulatory reviews of facilities capable of loading supertankers. U.S. and state agencies overseeing permit applications have taken too long to approve projects, the investors said, adding they were worried their projects would miss the most profitable years of the U.S. crude export boom. AdvertisementSupported byAmanda Lee and Dr. Derek Guo Ju were married March 30 at the Bel-Air Bay Club in Pacific Palisades, Calif. Eric Schwartz, a Universal Life minister, officiated.Mrs. Ju, 29, is a senior informatics analyst for UCLA Health in Los Angeles, where she helps implement electronic health systems. She graduated from Boston University.She is the daughter of May Lee of Braintree, Mass. The bride’s mother is a design engineer for Vanderweil Engineers in Boston.Dr. Ju, 30, is a chief resident of orthopedic surgery at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He graduated from M.I.T. and received a medical degree from Johns Hopkins University.AdvertisementSupported byBy Melissa EddyBERLIN — Germany will spend tens of billions of dollars to end its use of coal power within two decades, if a plan agreed to early Saturday by representatives of the power industry, environmental movement, miners and local interest groups becomes official policy.The deal, hammered out after more than 20 hours of intense, often fractious negotiating among a 28-member commission appointed last year by Chancellor Angela Merkel, would be one of the most significant energy transformations a nation has yet attempted in the face of climate change.Thirty countries have already set out proposals to cut their carbon emissions by eliminating coal, the dirtiest and cheapest fossil fuel, including Britain, Canada and Sweden. But none of those plans are of the scale laid out in Germany, an industrial giant that currently relies on coal for almost a third of its energy needs.The commission’s plan now requires approval from the leaders of four states affected and the federal government.It would come at a heavy price to taxpayers, who would provide the 40 billion euros earmarked for investment in regions hardest hit by job losses over the next two decades, along with other costs that include compensation in amounts yet to be determined for power companies taking coal plants offline early.Solid compensation was a key demand for governors in coal-heavy eastern states, where the populist Alternative for Germany party is expected to perform strongly in regional elections next year partly on a platform of hostility to measures fighting climate change.Still, a majority of Germans have said they want their country to quit coal and uphold their commitments to the Paris Climate Accord — to reduce carbon emissions by 80 percent to 95 percent by 2050.And the negotiation process, which brought together disparate interest groups with orders to find a consensus, was designed to minimize the potential for a backlash against efforts to curb emissions, like the Yellow Vests protests in France, or a repeat of the bitter disputes over the fate of a strip of woodland in western Germany threatened by a coal mine last year.“This is a historic effort,” Ronald Pofalla, the head of the commission, told reporters in Berlin, stressing that each of the interest groups had accepted concessions with an eye to achieving a result. “I would hope that the conflicts of recent years will now no longer be necessary, because dialogue within society contributed to reaching a consensus.”Coal remains the single largest source of energy to generate electricity worldwide, although renewable sources like solar and wind power are rapidly becoming more affordable. But coal is incumbent — and cheap — making it the go-to energy source for rapidly growing countries or those whose industrial backbones were built on burning it.“The whole world is watching how Germany — a nation based on industry and engineering, the fourth largest economy on our planet — is taking the historic decision of phasing out coal,” said Johan Rockström, director of the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research.“This can help end the age of finger-pointing, the age of too many governments saying: Why should we act, if others don’t? Germany is acting, even if the commission’s decision is not flawless.”German environmentalists had hoped for a plan that would end coal use by 2030, but said a less ambitious goal could be an acceptable trade-off for a consensus that would allow the aim to be achieved.“It is better to have bad climate protection, than no climate protection,” said Kai Niebert, president of the German environmental organization DNR and professor of sustainability at the University of Zurich, who was a member of the commission.“This plan will make it possible to achieve climate change goals set by the German government, but it will also, and this is important, achieve affordable and secure energy supplies if the German government implements our recommendations,” said Barbara Praetorius, an environmental professor who served as one of the four leaders of the commission.“A large majority of the population stands behind this exit from coal,” she said. “But it must be reliable, affordable and acceptable for the regions.”Here is a summary of the deal’s key points.• The plan calls for about a quarter of Germany’s coal plants — 12.5 gigawatts’ worth — to shut by 2022. The commission refrained from naming specific plants, leaving that decision to power companies.• Reviews of those measures and other planned reductions are scheduled every three years.• The final deadline for ending coal use is 2038, but could be moved forward to 2035. A review in 2032 will decide.• The commission refused to put a final price tag on the exit, but it foresees investing at least 40 billion euros, or $45.6 billion, in coal-dependent areas over the course of the next two decades, with a focus on job creation through innovation.• The German government also promised to create or relocate 5,000 government jobs to the affected regions, in North Rhine-Westphalia in the west of the country, and in Brandenburg, Saxony-Anhalt and Saxony in the east.• The commission recommended setting aside at least €2 billion a year to limit increases in German domestic power bills, which are already the most expensive in Europe. The 2022 review will set the exact amount.• Germany already has mechanisms to compensate energy-intensive industries for the loss of cheap power; the plan would develop these further.As part of the agreement, the commission recommended it would be “desirable” to keep the Hambach Forest intact.The forest, in western Germany, once stretched over nearly 10,000 acres, but over the past decade, all but 250 acres have given way to a lignite mine that feeds one of Germany’s dirtiest coal-fired plants.For the past six years, protesters have built tree houses to defend the remaining trees, and environmental groups have filed lawsuits aimed at preventing the RWE power company from clearing the trees. Violent protests over the fate of the forest last summer made it a symbol for environmental activists around the world.AdvertisementSupported byBy Simon RomeroALBUQUERQUE — Almost immediately after President Trump declared a national emergency on Friday so he could proceed with his ambition to build a wall along the border with Mexico, some of his opponents announced their next move: We’ll see you in court.Citing a dearth of evidence for a border crisis and fears over what is shaping into a colossal seizure of private property by the federal government, the Texas county of El Paso, together with human rights and pro-democracy groups, said on Friday that they planned to file a lawsuit almost immediately seeking to block the declaration.The groups argue that communities along the border would be harmed, not saved, by the construction of the wall, and that Mr. Trump had no legal basis for declaring an emergency. Theirs would be the first in an array of legal challenges already coalescing in an effort to thwart Mr. Trump’s plan.“There is zero factual support for the existence of a national emergency at the border,” said Thomas A. Saenz, president and general counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, one of the groups preparing to challenge Mr. Trump in court. The declaration, Mr. Saenz added, “would be a laughable object of ridicule were it not so dangerous.”[Read the first edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up for it here.]The brewing legal battles are likely to focus on such issues as the rights of private property owners; tribal sovereignty of Native Americans living along the border; and how far presidential powers extend.Mr. Trump predicted during his declaration of the emergency that he would face legal obstacles. “Sadly we’ll be sued, and sadly it will go through a process, and happily we’ll win,” he said.Courts have been grappling for at least a decade with lawsuits involving the Secure Fence Act of 2006, legislation passed under former President George W. Bush that authorized the construction of about 700 miles of barriers and fencing along the border with Mexico. Dozens of lawsuits filed by property owners challenging that project are still unresolved.The emergency declaration stands in contrast to that previous construction initiative because Congress this week refused in its bipartisan budget deal to allocate the funds needed to build the kind of wall the president wants. With Mr. Trump determined to go forward, these are just some of the legal battles that are expected.If the festering tension in South Texas over the last decade is any indication, some of the most strident opposition to Mr. Trump’s wall is expected to come from owners of land along the border who face seizure of their property by the federal government to build it.Landowners in Texas, largely in the Rio Grande Valley, filed hundreds of lawsuits aiming to block the Bush administration from building fencing along the border. Some property owners opposed the government’s seizure of their land, while others said the compensation offered by federal authorities was too low.Attention may now shift farther west to El Paso. Broad criticism of Mr. Trump in that city, a Democratic bastion in a state otherwise largely dominated by Republicans, emerged in recent days over the president’s widely discredited claim that border fencing had reduced crime there.El Paso County, which encompasses the city of El Paso and is home to about 800,000 people, joined the Border Network for Human Rights; Protect Democracy, a group aiming to curb authoritarian-style politics; and the Niskanen Center, a nonpartisan think tank, in preparing a lawsuit over Mr. Trump’s declaration.Ricardo Samaniego, who heads the governing county court of commissioners, said that Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration “will further damage El Paso County’s reputation and economy, and we are determined to stop this from happening.”Precedent suggests that those living in the path of the planned wall may have a difficult time challenging it in court: Landowners have lost nearly all of the earlier cases aimed at preventing the federal government from seizing their property, though some ended up securing more compensation than initially offered.Democratic leaders in Congress have vowed to overturn the emergency declaration. “This is plainly a power grab by a disappointed president, who has gone outside the bounds of the law to try to get what he failed to achieve in the constitutional legislative process,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, said in a joint statement.California officials announced on Friday that they planned to sue and said they hoped other states would join. “The president is exploiting a serious law,” the state’s attorney general, Xavier Becerra, said at a news conference with Gov. Gavin Newsom. “There is no emergency here for the nation.”Mr. Newsom said that California would be affected by construction of a wall more than any other state. “Fortunately Donald Trump is not the last word,” he said. “The courts will be the last word.”Another legal battle already underway involves the sovereignty of Native Americans living along the border.Leaders of the Tohono O’odham Nation, whose land in Arizona runs along 75 miles of the border, have already announced opposition to the border wall by taking their fight to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, a part of the Organization of American States aimed at preventing rights abuses.Tohono leaders say that a wall infringes on the right to freedom of movement among the tribe’s members, who live on both sides of the border. Verlon M. Jose, vice chairman of the Tohono nation, has said that the Trump administration would have to build the wall “over my dead body.”The Tohono O’odham’s petition at the human rights commission seeks to impede more wall construction. Other tribes along the border, including the Kickapoo in Texas, the Kumeyaay in California and the Cocopah in Arizona, are examining how to proceed after Mr. Trump’s declaration.Still, the Trump administration has been loath to respond to claims of rights abuses, and it has stopped cooperating with United Nations human rights investigators.That could mean that tribes need to rely on the legal system in the United States to resolve differences over the wall.Environmental groups are also mobilizing to fight the wall in court, but recent legal decisions raise doubts about their ability to successfully argue that federal authorities are circumventing environmental laws.The Supreme Court declined in December to hear a challenge by conservation groups to the proposed wall construction in California, leaving in place a ruling by a federal judge in San Diego that allowed construction to proceed.The plaintiffs in that case argued that the wall would violate environmental laws and imperil habitats for some animals. They unsuccessfully challenged a 1996 law that allows the Department of Homeland Security to waive other laws in order to build walls or barriers on the border.Even if an environmental challenge might have an uphill climb in the courts, it could have the effect of delaying wall construction in parts of the border, potentially for months or years.“I expect legal challenges to tie this up for a long time,” said Cristina Rodriguez, a professor at Yale Law School. “The president and his people are aware of this, but they may care more about the optics of the wall than what actually happens on the border.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of a group that is joining El Paso County in a lawsuit over President Trump’s emergency declaration. The group is Protect Democracy, not Project Democracy.Peter Baker in Washington and Jennifer Medina in Los Angeles contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensSenator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts unveiled a public lands proposal on Monday, thrusting land-use issues and the environment into the spotlight as she continues to set the pace on policy in a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates.Ms. Warren’s plan, which she outlined in a post on Medium ahead of trips to Colorado and Utah this week, promises an executive order that would prohibit new leases for fossil fuel drilling offshore and on public lands, calls for the creation of “a 21st century Civilian Conservation Corps” staffed by 10,000 young people and seeks to reduce inaccessible public acreage by 50 percent.It also aims to undo some of the environmental actions undertaken by the Trump administration, which she said amounted to “selling off our public lands to the oil, gas and coal industries for pennies on the dollar,” accelerating a “climate crisis” in the process. Under the plan, Ms. Warren said she would reinstate Obama-era air and water protections and wield the Antiquities Act, a 1906 law, to restore national monuments that President Trump shrank.“America’s public lands are one of our greatest treasures,” she wrote in the Medium post. “But today, those lands are under threat.”“We must not allow corporations to pillage our public lands and leave taxpayers to clean up the mess,” she said. “All of us — local communities and tribes, hunters and anglers, ranchers and weekend backpackers — must work together to manage and protect our shared heritage.”The land-use plan is the latest in a series of proposals from Ms. Warren, who has tried to stand out in a wide-open Democratic field by matching her rhetoric of structural change with detailed policy platforms.Last week, ahead of a trip to New Hampshire, Ms. Warren announced a new corporate tax plan targeting America’s wealthiest corporations. During a previous trip through the South, Ms. Warren highlighted her plan to restore affordable housing, particularly in communities previously burdened by government discrimination.She has also outlined plans that would provide universal child care, impose a new annual tax on the country’s wealthiest families and break up the biggest tech companies. She has advocated getting rid of the Electoral College, removing Confederate statues and creating a national commission to study reparations for black Americans.A former Harvard law professor, Ms. Warren has not shied away from getting into the weeds of the policies she proposes and has offered robust levels of detail about her ideas compared with many of her competitors.In her 1,600-word post about public lands, she set a goal of generating 10 percent of the county’s electricity from renewable sources offshore or on public lands and argued for financial investment in environmental preservation.Specifically, she called for the full funding of public land management agencies in order to eliminate their maintenance and infrastructure backlog, and for the mandatory spending of the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which was created by Congress in the 1960s to safeguard natural areas.Sharon Buccino, a senior adviser to the Natural Resources Defense Council Action Fund, a political advocacy arm of the nonprofit organization, called Ms. Warren’s plan a “responsible and visionary” way “to manage and protect our priceless lands and waters from exploitation and destruction.”In other words, she said, it was “just what America needs.”Ms. Warren said she would increase the AmeriCorps budget to pay for her civilian conservation corps. And she said it was “long past time” to make entry to national parks free.“America’s public lands belong to all of us,” she wrote. “We should start acting like it.”Astead W. Herndon contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byThe musicians Stephen Malkmus, Kelsey Lu, Bonnie “Prince” Billy and Meg Baird share original songs inspired by the theme of T’s Culture issue.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBRASILIA — The American Museum of Natural History in New York said on Monday that it will not host a planned gala dinner that was set to honor Brazil's far-right President Jair Bolsonaro as "Person of the Year."The Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce's plans to honor Bolsonaro, who has suggested he would pull Brazil out of the Paris Accord on climate change and wants to develop the Amazon rainforest, at a museum dedicated to science and nature was met with outrage last week.The museum had expressed concern over the event last week, saying it had been booked before the decision was made to honor Bolsonaro. "With mutual respect for the work & goals of our individual organizations, we jointly agreed that the Museum is not the optimal location for the Brazilian-Am. Chamber of Commerce gala dinner," the museum said on its official Twitter account. "This traditional event will go forward at another location on the original date & time."AdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump’s nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency has overseen the dismantling of the nation’s environmental laws.By Dominique BrowningMs. Browning is a writer and co-founder of Moms Clean Air Force.When I was pregnant with my first child, 35 years ago, one of the first things my doctor in Texas told me was to stop eating tuna, swordfish and other large, fatty fish because they were contaminated with mercury. What I didn’t know until I began working on children’s health issues is that the mercury in our food starts as a pollutant in our air.Mercury is released from the combustion of coal and emitted into the atmosphere from the smokestacks of coal-fired power plants. It rains down on land and water, where it is passed up the food chain as methylmercury. Its effects among aquatic animals is particularly pernicious. By the time it reaches larger fish, the concentrations of mercury in their fatty tissue becomes dangerously magnified. That’s why the federal government warns against consuming certain seafood. When pregnant women eat mercury-laden fish, the poison immediately crosses into the bloodstream, travels into the placenta and then makes its way into the fetus, where it deposits itself in the fattiest tissue available: the brain. Mercury is a potent neurotoxin. It disrupts the developing architecture of a baby’s brain. It can cause brain damage in infants, affecting a child’s ability to walk, talk, read and learn.For adults, ingesting even small amounts of mercury can cause serious health problems, harming the brain, heart, kidneys, lungs and immune system. Those coal-fired power plants also spew out lead, arsenic, dioxin, acid gases, as well as cancer-causing chromium and selenium.The Environmental Protection Agency spent more than 20 years working on standards that would require power plants to filter mercury from their emissions. The power industry repeatedly sued the agency to block restrictions. But finally, in 2011, the E.P.A. finalized a rule, the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards, that imposed limits on mercury emissions. The standards have been a resounding success; a testament to a government agency doing its job to keep us safe.To comply, many power plants were outfitted with technology known as scrubbers to remove mercury from the emissions before they leave the smokestack. Since the rule went into effect in 2012, electric companies have cut mercury emissions by nearly 90 percent, according to the Edison Electric Institute, an industry group. Mercury levels in Atlantic fish have been dropping in recent years, a consequence of this rule, but not in fish in the Pacific Ocean, where prevailing winds carry mercury pollution from Asia. So who would want to unravel such an important health protection? The very man President Trump nominated last Wednesday to succeed Scott Pruitt as the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency: Andrew Wheeler. Mr. Wheeler, currently the acting administrator, had served as the deputy administrator under Scott Pruitt, who resigned in July facing more than a dozen investigations into his spending and management practices.   The Senate’s Environment and Public Works Committee is scheduled to consider his nomination at a hearing this Wednesday.  A former coal industry lobbyist, Mr. Wheeler recently proposed a revision to the way the government evaluates the costs and benefits of regulating mercury emissions and, more broadly, air pollution. While the proposed change would not itself upend the rule, it would revoke the E.P.A.’s determination that it was “appropriate and necessary,” undermining the very foundation on which the regulation is built. In other words, if the rule wasn’t “appropriate and necessary,” why have it? In essence, Mr. Wheeler is inviting the coal industry to challenge the mercury rule in court. And not only the mercury rule. By rewriting the way costs and benefits are evaluated, Mr. Wheeler’s proposal threatens regulations governing a host of other environmental poisons.The issue over the mercury rule has focused on costs and benefits. Mr. Wheeler’s E.P.A. argues that the Obama administration was wrong to include “co-benefits” that would result from the rule. The scrubbers that remove mercury from coal plant emissions also reduce other pollutants, especially particulates, which are deadly, so this co-benefit keeps lethal pollution out of the air.Reductions in heart and lung disease from particulates prevent up to an estimated 11,000 premature deaths a year. And those other hazardous air toxics coming from industrial coal stacks? As someone who has survived kidney cancer — my oncologist vaguely explained it was “one of those environmental cancers” — I can promise you these aren’t things we want to breathe: probable carcinogens like cadmium, arsenic, benzene and formaldehyde, among others. The cost associated with harm from these was not even monetized by the E.P.A. Keeping them out of our air is a “freebie.”If anything, the benefits of reducing mercury have been vastly understated. Since the rule was finalized, the science documenting the severe health impacts of mercury has become even stronger. New studies show that the quantified benefits of reducing mercury are now in the billions of dollars; a study published in the journal Environmental Health in 2017 estimated that the societal costs associated with the neurocognitive deficits from methylmercury exposure in the United States that year was $4.8 billion.Among those urging the E.P.A. to leave the mercury standards alone was, surprisingly, the nation’s electric utility industry, which found that implementation cost far less than they had anticipated. Power industry experts indicate the true costs of the standards are $2 billion — or less than a quarter of what the agency originally estimated. Mr. Wheeler ignored the industry’s request that the standards be left in place. As the Rev. Mitch Hescox, president of the Evangelical Environmental Network, wrote in The Christian Post, addressing Mr. Wheeler’s legalistic cover of not overturning the rule but making it vulnerable to legal attack: “God is not fooled — and neither are we.” He added, “We’ll never give up on protecting children and the unborn from mercury pollution. Never.”President Trump’s pro-polluter agenda is profoundly radical — and immoral. We are in danger of normalizing the president’s ruthless disregard for health- and science-based protections. Mr. Wheeler’s cynical ploy to upend the mercury regulations is emblematic of his agenda. His fingerprints are all over proposed rollbacks of environmental regulations covering cars, carbon emissions from power plants, coal ash and more. For this destructiveness, Mr. Trump praised him in November, saying he had “done a fantastic job and I want to congratulate him.”Mr. Wheeler’s E.P.A. is also weakening implementation of a bipartisan law passed in 2016 protecting the public from toxic chemicals; people with chemical industry résumés dominate his staff. And Mr. Wheeler has sought to roll back an Obama-era rule requiring energy companies to monitor and repair leaks of methane; these leaks can occur from the moment a well is fracked until the gas gets to your home. Methane is an extremely powerful and swift contributor to global warming. Rather than move the country onto a path toward climate safety, Mr. Trump and Mr. Wheeler are leading us — and the world — closer to mutually assured destruction.Mr. Wheeler is more media savvy than Mr. Pruitt ever was, and that makes him more dangerous. His nomination to run the E.P.A. is among the most consequential and cynical of all the cabinet appointments that Mr. Trump has proposed. Mr. Wheeler’s disregard for the agency’s core mission — to protect public health and the environment — is brazen. But what else should we expect from a former coal industry lobbyist? Andrew Wheeler has demonstrated over and over again why he should not be entrusted with protecting us from harm. If his failure to do one single thing to address the global warming catastrophe isn’t bad enough to stop this nomination, perhaps his decision to upend the mercury rule, which could threaten the brains of tiny babies, will wake up senators. No one voted to make America dirty again. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLONDON — Environmental protesters blocked access to several major London landmarks and vandalized oil company Shell's headquarters Monday as they tried to bring the city to a standstill.The group Extinction Rebellion was seeking to paralyze parts of central London to highlight demands for the British government to declare a climate emergency.Thousands of protesters converged on Marble Arch, Oxford Circus, Waterloo Bridge, Piccadilly Circus and Parliament Square. Some activists glued themselves to windows at Shell headquarters near Waterloo, and others smashed glass revolving doors and sprayed the building with graffiti.Many carried signs pleading with the government to make fighting climate change a top priority.Police said three men were arrested in the ongoing protests. They have not been identified or charged.Extinction Rebellion drew attention to its cause two weeks ago when members stripped to their underwear in the public gallery in Parliament during a Brexit debate.Protester Olivia Evershed, 23, said climate policies must be altered quickly to prevent catastrophic changes.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHONG KONG — Chinese authorities seized 7.48 tonnes of smuggled ivory tusks last month, the biggest haul in recent years, as Beijing steps up a campaign against illegal wildlife trafficking.The seizures came during an operation against an international criminal gang "that has long been specializing in smuggling ivory," the customs administration said on Monday.China, the world's largest importer and end user of elephant tusks, banned ivory sales in the country in 2017.Demand for ivory from Asian countries such as China and Vietnam, where it is turned into jewels and ornaments, has led to a surge in poaching across Africa. Since January, China has seized 8.48 tonnes of ivory and ivory products and more than 500 tonnes of endangered species, the customs administration said.The ivory tusks are part of a flurry of seizures - from rhino horns to pangolin scales - in Hong Kong, Singapore and Vietnam in recent months.Much of the trade supplies the traditional Chinese medicine industry, with demand for treatments using animal products driving a surge in illegal trafficking of wildlife.With China no longer accepting used plastic and paper, communities are facing steep collection bills, forcing them to end their programs or burn or bury more waste.Recycling and garbage bins in Sunrise, Fla., which has decided to burn its recycling collections in a facility that turns waste into energy.CreditCreditScott McIntyre for The New York TimesSupported byBy Michael CorkeryRecycling, for decades an almost reflexive effort by American households and businesses to reduce waste and help the environment, is collapsing in many parts of the country.Philadelphia is now burning about half of its 1.5 million residents’ recycling material in an incinerator that converts waste to energy. In Memphis, the international airport still has recycling bins around the terminals, but every collected can, bottle and newspaper is sent to a landfill. And last month, officials in the central Florida city of Deltona faced the reality that, despite their best efforts to recycle, their curbside program was not working and suspended it.Those are just three of the hundreds of towns and cities across the country that have canceled recycling programs, limited the types of material they accepted or agreed to huge price increases.“We are in a crisis moment in the recycling movement right now,” said Fiona Ma, the treasurer of California, where recycling costs have increased in some cities.Prompting this nationwide reckoning is China, which until January 2018 had been a big buyer of recyclable material collected in the United States. That stopped when Chinese officials determined that too much trash was mixed in with recyclable materials like cardboard and certain plastics. After that, Thailand and India started to accept more imported scrap, but even they are imposing new restrictions.The turmoil in the global scrap markets began affecting American communities last year, and the problems have only deepened.[These are six items that are commonly put into recycling bins by mistake.]With fewer buyers, recycling companies are recouping their lost profits by charging cities more, in some cases four times what they charged last year.Amid the soaring costs, cities and towns are making hard choices about whether to raise taxes, cut other municipal services or abandon an effort that took hold during the environmental movement of the 1970s.“Recycling has been dysfunctional for a long time,” said Mitch Hedlund, executive director of Recycle Across America, a nonprofit organization that pushes for more standardized labels on recycling bins to help people better sort material. “But not many people really noticed when China was our dumping ground.”Perhaps counterintuitively, the big winners appear to be the nation’s largest recyclers, like Waste Management and Republic Services, which are also large trash collectors and landfill owners.Recycling had been one of the least lucrative parts of their business, trailing hauling and landfills. Analysts say many waste companies had historically viewed recycling as a “loss leader,” offering the service largely to win over a municipality’s garbage business.That equation is starting to change. While there remains a viable market in the United States for scrap like soda bottles and cardboard, it is not large enough to soak up all of the plastics and paper that Americans try to recycle. The recycling companies say they cannot depend on selling used plastic and paper at prices that cover their processing costs, so they are asking municipalities to pay significantly more for their recycling services. Some companies are also charging customers additional “contamination” fees for recycled material that is mixed in with trash.The higher recycling fees, analysts say, will help bolster the largest companies’ already booming businesses. Waste Management reported strong operating profits in 2018, while Republic reported increased revenue driven by its waste business.Most of the industry’s landfill increases were driven by economic growth: The more Americans consume, the more garbage they generate. But at least some of the higher volume were recyclables that could not be sold and repurposed, analysts say. Some municipal leaders say they are growing wary of companies that control virtually every aspect of the waste and recycling system.“Are these contamination rates truly high, or is it about benefiting their corporate interest?” asked Mike Ryan, the mayor of Sunrise, Fla. “We can’t afford to have inspectors constantly looking over their shoulders.”Unable to afford the higher costs, Sunrise decided to burn its recycling in a facility that turns waste into energy rather than send it to a landfill.“It’s not what most people think of as recycling, but it is better than the alternative,” Mr. Ryan said.For cities like Philadelphia, recycling had long been a point of pride. Over the last decade, Philadelphia went from having one of the lowest recycling rates among big cities to one of the best.When China was buying cardboard and plastics, recycling made money for the city some years. But last year, Philadelphia was hit with an “outrageously high” price increase, a city spokeswoman said in a statement.The city came up with what it says will be a temporary solution. It identified the neighborhoods with the most contamination in its recycling bins and started sending their material to an incinerator in nearby Chester, Pa. The rest still send their material to a recycling facility.The incinerator converts the waste to energy, which can be sold back to the electrical grid, said Carlton Williams, Philadelphia’s streets commissioner. But that has done little to alleviate many residents’ environmental angst and concerns about increased air pollution in Chester.“Residents say, ‘You are taking all our recycling efforts, and you are burning it?’” Mr. Williams said. “They hear the word ‘burn’ and they think it is an environmental disaster.”City officials are working to negotiate a more affordable contract that would restore recycling to all of Philadelphia this year.In Deltona, higher costs were not the only factor behind the decision last month to stop recycling. Even if the city agreed to pay the additional $25,000 a month that its recycling company was charging, there was no assurance that all the plastic containers and junk mail would be turned into something new, Mayor Heidi Herzberg said.“We all did recycling because it was easy, but the reality is that not much was actually being recycled,” Ms. Herzberg said.The troubles with recycling have amplified calls for limiting waste at its source. Measures like banning plastic bags and straws, long pushed by environmental groups, are gaining traction more widely.This month, a lobbying group for Connecticut municipalities, citing the chaos in local recycling programs, urged the governor to focus on restricting plastic bags, straws and packaging.“The sooner we accept the economic impracticality of recycling, the sooner we can make serious progress on addressing the plastic pollution problem,” said Jan Dell, an engineer who leads Last Beach Cleanup. It’s an advocacy group that works with investors and nonprofits to reduce plastic pollution.Some large waste producers are still going through the motions of recycling, no matter how futile.Across Memphis, large commercial enterprises have had to stop recycling for now because of contamination problems. But the airport is keeping its recycling bins in place to preserve “the culture” of recycling among passengers and employees, a spokesman said.AdvertisementSupported byAnastasia Elisabeth-Haft Stolpen and Adam Brett Weiner were married March 9 at the Bowery Hotel in New York. Dr. Ronald B. Sobel, a senior rabbi emeritus at New York City’s Temple Emanu-El, officiated, with Ann E. Sheffer, the bride’s mother and a former justice of the peace in Westport, Conn., taking part in the ceremony.Ms. Stolpen, 32, who is known as Betty, is a major gifts officer at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York. She serves on the head council at the Loomis Chaffee School in Windsor, Conn. She graduated from George Washington University.She is a daughter of Ms. Sheffer of Palm Springs, Calif., and Adam D. Stolpen of Stamford, Conn. The bride’s father is a founder and chief executive of Safe Harbour Products, a company that manufactures environmentally friendly, all-purpose lubricating and penetrating oils in Norwalk, Conn. The bride’s mother is a chair of the City of Palm Springs Public Arts Commission and a trustee of the Palm Springs Art Museum.Mr. Weiner, also 32, works in New York as a brand supervisor at Pereira O'Dell, a full-service advertising agency based in San Francisco. He graduated from Washington University in St. Louis.AdvertisementSupported byBy Shasta DarlingtonSÃO PAULO, Brazil — A mining dam burst in southeastern Brazil on Friday, killing at least seven people, flooding nearby homes, submerging cars and buses under a river of sludge and leaving 200 people missing, according to the rescue workers searching for them.The accident, in the town of Brumadinho, comes just three years after a dam burst in Mariana, 75 miles away, killing 19 people and causing one of the worst environmental disasters in Brazil’s history.The Brumadinho dam ruptured in the early afternoon on Friday, spilling murky water filled with mining waste into an administrative area where employees were working and a neighborhood where they lived. The dam is owned by the iron ore mining giant Vale S.A., which also was a joint owner of the dam that burst in Mariana.The press office for the Civil Defense service said search and rescue efforts had been suspended after nightfall, but confirmed that seven people were killed and 17 people were injured and rescued. There were more than 50 firefighters on location with six helicopters and the search for approximately 200 would continue on Saturday.The C.E.O. of Vale, Fabio Schvartsman, called the accident a “human tragedy.”“The majority of those affected are our own employees. At the time of the accident there were approximately 300 employees,” he said at a news conference. “We don’t know how many were injured because everything was buried.”He added that the dam had been inactive for the last three years and was not receiving mining waste.Brazilian television broadcast images of a woman waist-deep in mud being rescued by a helicopter, and aerial video of huge rivers of mud rushing over roads and burying homes and trees.Workers told local news media that many employees were in the company cafeteria when a wave of mud crashed down into it.“It destroyed everything. Everything, everything,” a man says in an amateur video posted to social media.“The restaurant, everyone was eating. It was all destroyed. Just look,” he said, showing an expanse of mud.President Jair Bolsonaro announced he and the defense minister would fly to the disaster zone on Saturday morning, and had established a crisis cabinet in the meantime.“Our main concern at this moment is attending to potential victims of this grave tragedy,” he said on Twitter.It was not immediately clear what caused the accident. Hours after the dam burst, panicked residents told local news media that they still hadn’t been able to obtain information from Vale about family members who work for the company.Vale drew criticism from environmental activists and from others who accused the company of repeating the errors that led to the disaster at the Mariano dam, which was owned by Samarco, a joint venture between Vale and the British-Australian mining company B.H.P.“This new disaster with the ore tailings dam, this time in Brumadinho, is a sad consequence of the lessons not learned by the Brazilian government and the mining companies responsible for the tragedy with Samarco,” Nilo D’Ávila, the campaign director for Greenpeace Brazil, said in a statement.Mr. Schvartsman, the Vale C.E.O., said he felt the environmental damage was not as severe as the loss of lives. “The human tragedy will be much greater,” he said.Brumadinho, a town of 38,000, is best known for the Inhotim contemporary art and botanical gardens complex, founded there in 2004. The complex was not damaged by the flooding, but it was evacuated and closed to the public shortly after the dam burst.Lis Moriconi contributed reporting from Rio de Janeiro.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Prosecutors are planning to file criminal charges against Brazil's miner Vale SA and its employees over the collapse of a mine-waste dam in January that killed hundreds of people, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing the lead investigator.Investigators have gathered enough evidence to affirm that Vale employees involved in the mine operation knew the dam was unsafe, the report said, quoting Jose Adercio Leite Sampaio, the prosecutor heading the probe."At this point, we know that the operational side knew [that the dam was at risk of collapse], but did Vale's directors know?" Sampaio said in an interview with the Journal. The charges for crimes related to the disaster could include murder, manslaughter, environmental damage and false representation, according to the report."It is necessary to wait until investigation is completed. Vale continues cooperating fully with the authorities to ascertain the facts related to the dam breach," Vale said in response to a Reuters query."The issues identified in the audits have been addressed under the guidance of the auditing firms."AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDODOMA — Tanzania plans to ban the production, importation, sale and use of all single-use plastic bags by July, to help tackle pollution from non-biodegradable waste.The East African nation is the latest country to make a formal commitment to phase out single-use non-biodegradable plastics, which have been identified by the United Nations as one of the world's biggest environmental challenges.Of the 9 billion tonnes of plastic the world has produced, only 9 percent has been recycled, according to U.N. estimates.Tanzania will join more than 60 other countries that have banned, partly banned or taxed single-use plastic bags, including China, France, Kenya, Rwanda and Italy.In August 2017, neighboring Kenya introduced one of the world's toughest bans on plastic bags mandating four years in prison or a fine of $40,000 for even using one."The regulations are ready for publication ... it is possible that July 1 will mark the end of the use of plastics in the country," Tanzania's Environment Minister January Makamba told Parliament on Monday.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressFRANKFORT, Ky. — An aluminum company planning to build a $1.7 billion plant in Appalachia said Monday it's forging a partnership with a Russian company that until recently faced U.S. sanctions.Russian aluminum giant Rusal wants to invest $200 million in a Kentucky taxpayer-backed aluminum rolling mill that Braidy Industries intends to build near Ashland, Kentucky. Rusal would supply aluminum for the new mill from a smelter under construction in Siberia.Rusal said it would assume a 40 percent ownership stake in the mill in return for the investment, the Russian company said in a release.Braidy would hold the other 60 percent share in the plant, which will produce aluminum sheet primarily for the transportation industry, including the automotive, aerospace and marine sectors.The project is expected to create 1,500 construction jobs and more than 650 full-time jobs once the plant starts production, which is expected in early 2021. The plant is to be built not far from where Ohio, Kentucky and West Virginia meet on the Ohio River.Rusal had been among Russian companies hit with U.S. sanctions for connections to Russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska. The U.S. Treasury Department announced in January it was removing Rusal and two other companies from its sanctions list on the grounds that the companies have reduced Deripaska's direct and indirect shareholding stakes in the three companies.Deripaska has sued the Treasury Department and wants a federal judge to lift sanctions against him. He was slapped with sanctions targeting tycoons with close ties to the Kremlin.In Kentucky, Braidy announced plans for the mill two years ago but has been working since to complete financing. Kentucky Gov. Matt Bevin, who is seeking re-election this year, has touted the project as evidence of his leadership in bringing jobs to Appalachia.Braidy would not have been able to form the partnership with Rusal if the sanctions were still in place."Anyone that will help me rebuild Appalachia with prosperity ... I will welcome," Braidy CEO Craig Bouchard said in a phone interview Monday. "We're very, very cautious and careful about observance of all rules, regulations and laws. This is a non-controversial item for us. We're business people, not politicians."Kentucky lawmakers approved an unusual, $15 million investment in the Braidy project that was worked out by Bevin's administration, making taxpayers partial owners of the mill.Bouchard said Monday that Kentucky will reap $22 million in state income taxes every year if the mill meets projections.Bevin, a Republican ally of President Donald Trump, said Monday that the Rusal investment will have a "powerful impact on the economic revitalization and industry diversification in eastern Kentucky." Thousands of coal jobs have disappeared from eastern Kentucky in the past decade, and the spinoff effect has hurt many other businesses in the region.Rusal is among the world's largest aluminum producers. Bouchard touted the environmental benefits of the partnership."The bottom line is that without Rusal we could not build an environmentally-conscious mill of this scale," he said. "We enter the market with the perfect customer proposition — low cost, high quality and low carbon is the future of aluminum."Braidy and Rusal said they have entered into a letter of intent and expect to sign a binding document in the second quarter of 2019.Lord Gregory Barker, executive chairman of En+ Group, the parent company of Rusal, said the announcement is "an important first step in forging the long-term partnership that will be vital to building this globally unique plant.""Of all prime producers around the world only Rusal, the largest outside China, has the capacity to supply such a large new plant with the high-quality, low-carbon aluminum it needs," he added.The Kentucky project's debt will be raised from several financial institutions, Rusal said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Graham BowleyThe American Museum of Natural History said Monday that it would no longer host an event at the museum by an outside organization that was to have honored President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil, whose environmental policies have come under fire.The announcement followed days of criticism that a prominent institution dedicated to nature and science would serve as a platform to recognize someone who has proposed environmental deregulation and opening more of the Amazon rain forest to mining and agribusiness.The event was to have been held in May in the museum’s Hall of Ocean Life, a popular space for galas. The Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce, a nonprofit organization that promotes business and cultural ties between the United States and Brazil, had rented the space.“With mutual respect for the work and goals of our individual organizations, we have jointly agreed that the museum is not the optimal location for the Brazilian-American Chamber of Commerce gala dinner,” the museum and the chamber said in a joint statement. “This traditional event will go forward at another location on the original date and time.”The museum acted quickly after discovering this month that President Bolsonaro would be receiving the Person of the Year award at the event. The roughly 1,000-person gala is an established, annual event, and has been held at the museum in prior years. Past recipients have included former President Bill Clinton and former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.Among those who pushed the museum to cancel the gala was Mayor Bill de Blasio, who said he found holding the event at an institution that accepts city funding “really troubling.” Some staff members also signed an open letter to the museum’s president, Ellen V. Futter, saying that the event was “in direct conflict with the values of the museum.”At the end of last week the museum announced it was reviewing its decision to rent out its space for the gala. Backing out seemed inevitable when, over the weekend, the museum issued statements publicly thanking those who had raised concerns and saying that, “We want you to know that we understand and share your distress.”Museum representatives did not expand on reasons for jointly agreeing to cancel the event. But in earlier statements the museum had said it was “deeply concerned about the stated policy aims of the current Brazilian administration.”It is unclear where the gala, scheduled for May 14, will take place. No one at the Chamber of Commerce could be reached for comment. According to its website, President Bolsonaro is being honored in “recognition of his strongly stated intention of fostering closer commercial and diplomatic ties between Brazil and the United States and his firm commitment to building a strong and durable partnership between the two nations.”It is also unclear what sort of financial hit, if any, the museum took for canceling the gala. The museum declined to specify how much money it had received or anticipated receiving for renting the space.The speed with which events unfolded was underlined by the fact that the chamber’s website continued on Monday evening to list the museum as the location for the gala.Outside social events can be lucrative for museums. But this latest outcry comes at a time when there are increasing questions about the kind of oversight museums should exercise over people and organizations who serve on their boards, give them money or, as in this case, rent their space.Traditionally, museums have argued that they do not apply ideological litmus tests to their donors or trustees, a position of principle, but also one that enabled often cash-challenged nonprofit institutions to accept financing from the widest spectrum of individuals.AdvertisementSupported byExposure to air pollution could be a factor, experts suggest.By Nicholas BakalarLiving near a major highway may be associated with developmental delays in children.Researchers studied 5,825 children living in New York state outside of New York City. Parents periodically filled out a well-validated questionnaire that tracks developmental milestones in children from age 8 months to 3 years. Milestones encompassed physical, verbal and social domains.The scientists, writing in Environmental Research, calculated the proximity of the children’s addresses to interstate and state highways using data from the New York Department of Transportation, and estimated air pollution exposures using federal government data.After controlling for maternal age, race, smoking, birth weight and many other factors, they found that compared with children living more than 1,000 meters away from a highway, those living within 500 meters were twice as likely to fail in the verbal and nonverbal communication domain. The association was similar for the other developmental domains, but it did not reach statistical significance.AdvertisementSupported byQ&ADeployed on farms, industrious dung beetles clean up livestock waste, improve soil and reduce harmful bacteria.By C. Claiborne RayA. The thousands of species of voracious beetles in the family Scarabaeoidea evolved to move, bury and consume the excrement of many animals in nature. Dung beetles are widely recognized as important contributors to farm cleanups, as well. Some species have been transplanted into alien environments to help meet agricultural needs. From the 1960s to the 1980s, there was a large-scale introduction of dung beetles into Australia to handle the excrement of another introduced species, beef cattle. Government entomologists imported dozens of species of beetles to address several problems, among them fouled pastures, slowing decomposition and disease-carrying flies in ordure.AdvertisementSupported byBy Derek M. Norman[What you need to know to start your day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Francis Smith, an 83-year-old resident of East Harlem, stood at the end of a checkout counter at a local supermarket on Saturday, pulled out several plastic bags from her hand cart and began bagging her items.A store employee helped her stuff paper towels into a worn, white plastic bag from Target that she had brought from home.“I always carry extra plastic bags and never throw them away or waste any,” said Ms. Smith. “I understand that they do harm to the environment, but these ‘single-use’ bags can be used a lot.”Her reaction, and many like it, came after New York lawmakers agreed last week to impose a statewide ban on single-use plastic bags from most retail sales. The plan was included in the state’s $175 billion budget that was announced early Sunday.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo first proposed the ban, which could begin as early as next March, a year ago. New York is now the second state to impose such a rule; California banned plastic bags in 2016. Hawaii effectively has a statewide ban since all counties in the state bar the use of plastic bags.New York’s ban allows for several exceptions, like wrapped deli meat, restaurant takeout bags and plastic garbage bags. The bill also allows counties to charge an optional 5-cent fee for customers who want brown paper bags, which has caused environmentalists to worry that reusable bags would become a less popular option.Still, many city residents in lower-income neighborhoods, while appreciative of the environmental considerations, appeared wary about how the ban would impact their daily routines. One frequent question: Who would really bear the brunt of the legislation?To save money, many people said their families reused plastic bags as trash or recycling bags, or used them to bring lunch to work.“I know this neighborhood is going through a change, but there’s still a lot of people here who can’t afford to take on more, and it’s a luxury to have the choice,” said Ms. Smith, who has lived in East Harlem for more than 60 years.“Sometimes politicians mean well,” she added. “But unless they live in this type of community they wouldn’t know how a change like this could feel.”In January 2018, Suffolk County on Long Island began charging shoppers 5 cents per plastic bag, and usage dropped. In the first year of the added fee, grocery stores reported an 80 percent decrease in the distribution of single-use bags.Residents were forced to change their habits. Will city residents adjust as easily?On the Lower East Side, Tony Strong, 51, stood against a fence in front of the La Guardia Houses, chatting with a friend, with two carts packed with bagged items and extra plastic bags beside them.“We like to keep our plastic bags in our cubby cabinet and when we need to carry something, we reuse them,” he said as he pulled several used plastic bags out of his hand cart.“I actually think they should keep them,” he said of the state’s ban. “But our government sometimes just doesn’t give us the choice. They do it, and we just have to adjust.”A manager of a bodega above the Kingston Avenue subway station in Brooklyn said using less plastic would be better for the city and that the store even tried selling reusable totes in the past, to no avail.One resident of Manhattan’s Chinatown said she loved the ban, but predicted that her neighborhood would have a difficult time adjusting. Plastic bags, she said, are so prevalent in Chinatown that they were almost iconic.Michael King, 44, wheeled a shopping cart out of a Foodtown grocery store in Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn and then, one by one, lifted several plastic bags with the handles wrapped tightly around his fingers — three bags to a hand.Mr. King thought the plan seemed designed to “change grocery shopping culture” by steering it to online grocers.“You’re actually dictating how I shop if I have to bring a bag with me,” Mr. King said. “See me, I’ve got one, two, three — five, six bags. So you’re telling me I have to leave my house with 20 bags if it’s Thanksgiving time?”The only beneficiaries, Mr. King said, would be big web-based retail delivery services like Amazon and FreshDirect. “They’re ready,” he said.A fruit vendor on the Upper East Side, who supports the ban, said plastic bags should have been banned years ago. New Yorkers, he said, have become overly reliant on them.“It’s embedded in them psychologically,” said Erdal Ozcan, 30, who lives in New Jersey but sets up his fruit stand on the corner of 86th Street and Second Avenue. “One box of blueberries, they want one bag. One cherry tomato, boom, one bag.“People in this city might be upset for the first month, but hey, it’s the rules and they’ll get used to it,” he added, instinctively yanking a plastic white bag off a hook each time a customer purchased an item. “Yeah, the people here won’t like it, but who cares? It’s not for the people. It’s for the future, for the environment.”Many New Yorkers understood that the bill was intended to improve environmental sustainability.On 125th Street in Harlem, Nana Yaw, a 57-year-old sidewalk vendor from Ghana, was setting up his table with African jewelry, trinkets and statuettes. According to Mr. Yaw, in order to be more environmentally conscious, he has used paper bags for years.“It’s important for the vendors to be into this, too — that’s how this part of the industry will change,” he said. “And as for the customers, as long as you give them something to carry their things, they will take it.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Dionne Searcey and Mike IvesLike any major international flight, the plane was packed with passengers from across the world. This one had professors from Kenya, aid workers from Ethiopia, a career ambassador from Nigeria and a fisheries consultant from Britain.Some were heading to job training, others to an environmental conference. Some were simply going home.All were passengers on Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, which crashed on Sunday shortly after takeoff, killing the 157 on board and raising questions about the safety of the aircraft model, the Boeing 737 Max 8.On Monday, as the identities of more victims were reported, heartache rippled through convention halls, classrooms and living rooms across the globe. Tributes flowed on social media. Colleagues observed moments of silence.The campus of Kenyatta University in Kenya mourned the death of Isaac Mwangi, a lecturer in the department of education, communication and technology, and Agnes Gathumbi, a director of teacher professional development.Dr. Mwangi wrote dissertations on using technology in secondary education and worked on projects related to integrating images and graphics into the teaching of poetry.He was “diligent and proactive,” Olive Mugenda, a former vice chancellor at the university who worked with Dr. Mwangi, wrote on Twitter.Dr. Gathumbi published dozens of papers, including one on how administrators react differently to graffiti scrawled by girls instead of boys. She had received certifications in French, African storybook writing, computer studies and other areas from institutions across the world.Hussein Swaleh, the 52-year-old former head of the governing body for Kenyan soccer, was also among those who died on the flight, according to Barry Otieno, the federation’s head of communications.“It’s a sad day for football in Kenya, very sad day,” said Mr. Otieno. “We were looking to roll out a youth development football tournament for the future of youth and football in the country, we had a lot planned.”Thirty-two Kenyans died on the flight, more than from any other country.China was the first major country to ground the jets. The U.S. was last.James Macharia, the transport secretary, said the government was working to get the family members to Ethiopia so they could identify the bodies.Six members of an Ontario-based family were among the victims. Peel District School Board said in a statement that students Ashka and Anushka Dixit were traveling on the flight with their parents and grandparents, who were not named.Aid workers were also killed in the crash. Four were employees of Catholic Relief Services, all of them Ethiopian citizens traveling to Nairobi for training.“Although we are in mourning, we celebrate the lives of these colleagues and the selfless contributions they made to our mission, despite the risks and sacrifices that humanitarian work can often entail,” the organization said in a statement.In Nigeria, the government confirmed the death of Abiodun Bashua, a former ambassador who had been working with the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa.He joined the Nigerian foreign service in 1976 and worked in several countries, including Austria, Ivory Coast and Iran, according to the Nigerian Foreign Ministry. He also worked with the United Nations on peacekeeping operations and climate change issues.Two Spaniards were on the flight. Jordi Dalmau Sayol, 46, was a Catalan chemical engineer who was on a business trip. He was working for a water infrastructure company that was awarded a water desalination project in Kenya, according to the Spanish daily La Vanguardia. Mr. Dalmau’s death was confirmed by his company.Pilar Martínez Docampo, 32, worked for an aid organization and was traveling to Kenya to give language classes to children, according to La Opinión, a newspaper in her home region of Galicia, in northwestern Spain. The authorities in her hometown, Cangas do Morrazo, confirmed her death.A day after the crash, a somber mood engulfed the United Nations headquarters in Nairobi, as politicians, environmentalists and government officials gathered for a major United Nations meeting on the environment — the United Nations Environment Assembly — a destination for many people on the flight. The meeting focused sustainable development and environmental challenges related to poverty, natural resources and waste management.Among the passengers were at least 22 people who worked for United Nations-affiliated agencies.The crash — of a flight that had been nicknamed the “U.N. shuttle” because of how often United Nations staff members take it — has highlighted the organization’s work in some of the world’s most troubled regions, from South Sudan to North Korea.The United Nations secretary general, António Guterres, offered “heartfelt condolences” to the loved ones of the United Nations staff members who died in the crash. He also said in an email to staff that flags at United Nations offices would fly at half-staff on Monday to honor the victims.Among the passengers traveling to the meeting was Victor Tsang, a gender expert from Hong Kong who worked for the United Nations Environment Program in Nairobi. According to his biography on the agency’s website, Mr. Tsang had worked in Chad, Ethiopia, Panama and South Sudan.A Twitter account that appears to be Mr. Tsang’s says that while he worked in sustainable development, his passion was camping with his 2-year-old son in his family’s garden.“Victor was so dedicated, and a dear colleague,” one of his former colleagues in Nairobi, Oona Tully, wrote on Twitter.The World Food Program said seven of its staff had died in the crash, the most of any United Nations organization. The program’s work focuses on widespread hunger caused by war or instability in Nigeria, South Sudan and Yemen, among other countries.“As we mourn, let us reflect that each of these W.F.P. colleagues were willing to travel and work far from their homes and loved ones to help make the world a better place to live,” David Beasley, the head of the program, said in a statement. “That was their calling.”The World Food Program victims included Ekta Adhikari of Nepal, who had worked for the program in Ethiopia; Michael Ryan of Ireland, who had helped Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh prepare for seasonal monsoons; and Zhen-Zhen Huang of China, who had worked in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.“I cannot imagine the loss felt by your loved ones, especially your son,” one of Ms. Huang’s colleagues, Faizza Tanggol, wrote on Twitter.The United Nations refugee agency, U.N.H.C.R., said three staff members had died: Nadia Adam Abaker Ali, 40, a Sudanese citizen; Jessica Hyba, 43, from Canada; and Jackson Musoni, 31, from Rwanda.Ms. Ali, who leaves a husband and 6-year-old daughter, was a health specialist who joined the agency in Sudan eight years ago, helping people who fled conflict in Sudan’s Darfur region.Mr. Musoni also worked in Sudan helping to coordinate operations in East Darfur. He had worked for Rwanda’s Foreign Ministry before joining the United Nations agency in 2014; he had three children, aged 8, 5 and 4, the refugee agency said.Ms. Hyba, a mother of two daughters aged 9 and 12, had joined the refugee agency in 2013 and had started a new post as its senior external relations officer in the Somali capital, Mogadishu, only last month.Other victims of the crash had been traveling to United Nations events. One was Sebastiano Tusa, an underwater archaeologist from Italy who had been traveling to Kenya for a Unesco conference about safeguarding underwater cultural heritage in Eastern Africa.Stéphanie Lacroix, originally from the northern Canadian mining town of Timmins, Ontario, was leading a four-person delegation of young Canadians heading to the environmental conference. The other three delegates, Danielle Moore, Micah Messent and Angela Rehhorn, also died in the crash.Ms. Lacroix graduated three years ago from the University of Ottawa with a degree in international development and globalization and was at the nonprofit association as part of a volunteer program, the Canada Service Corps.“These bright, young Canadians were an inspiration: compassionate leaders, dedicated to the conviction that they could build a better future for our country,” Patty Hajdu, the federal labor minister, said in a statement.Darcy Belanger, the director of professional development for the American operations of PCL, a large construction firm based in Edmonton, Alberta, was also attending the conference. He volunteered as the director of strategic initiatives for Parvati.org, an environmental group that, among other things, advocates to turn part of the Arctic into a protected international sanctuary.“He would boldly approach the highest-ranking officials to engage them,” the group said in a statement, “and humbly serve alongside any willing volunteer.”Joanna Toole, a United Nations fisheries consultant from southwestern England, had planned to attend the conference to represent the aquaculture department of the Food and Agriculture Organization.Two days before the flight she tweeted that she was happy to be among an increasing number of women working for the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.Ms. Toole, 36, was from Exmouth, in the southwestern English region of Devon. The Exmouth Journal reported that she had attended a local community college before studying animal behavior at a university.“Everybody was very proud of her and the work she did. We’re still in a state of shock,” her father, Adrian Toole, told the local news site Devon Live. “Joanna was genuinely one of those people who you never heard a bad word about.”Ms. Toole, who had kept homing pigeons and pet rats as a child, often posted on social media about initiatives to protect animals from marine pollution and make the fishing industry more environmentally friendly.Mr. Toole’s next retweet was of a post by the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader.“We won’t bring about peace in the world merely by praying for it; we have to take steps to tackle the violence and corruption that disrupt peace,” the Dalai Lama wrote. “We can’t expect change if we don’t take action.”Ian Austen, Raphael Minder, Elsie Chen, Luz Ding, Nick Cumming-Bruce and Emily Oduor contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Britain's main opposition Labour Party will discuss the prospect of customs union with the EU in talks with the government on finding a Brexit compromise on Tuesday, said John McDonnell, its finance policy chief. Negotiating teams have resumed talks on trying to find a way forward on Britain's departure from the European Union that can persuade parliament to ratify a divorce deal.Asked if the government had shown any willingness to change its position on a customs union, McDonnell told reporters: "Not yet, not even changes in language that I detect, but we'll see what comes out this afternoon."McDonnell said the customs union, something the government has so far resisted, but which is seen as the most likely area for compromise, was the first item on the agenda for the talks, which will include finance minister Philip Hammond.He said other items on the agenda for the talks included environmental protections, alignment with the EU single market and preventing a future Conservative prime minister unpicking any deal. The talks were expected to end around 1630 GMT.AdvertisementSupported byHelp us get a picture of how communities around the world are affected by — and adapting to — the manifestations of climate change.By Kelly VirellaSea levels have risen so high in some cities on the East Coast of the United States and in some Gulf Coast cities that a high tide and strong wind can send salt water one to two feet deep cascading onto paved streets.This phenomenon, known as sunny day flooding, has increased in recent years in some places because of climate change, according to federal scientists. In other parts of the world, climate change has been linked to drought or decreases in snowpack.The Times would like your help chronicling the effect of some of these environmental changes on communities around the world. Please tell us about your community below. Your response may be selected for publication.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — An activist group said it has withdrawn a shareholder resolution calling on Royal Dutch Shell to change its climate policy after the oil and gas company reached a broad agreement with investors on the issue.The Anglo-Dutch energy company drew rare praise from investors and environmental activists in December when it set out plans to introduce industry-leading targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and link them to executive pay.Nevertheless, Dutch activist group Follow This tabled several days later a resolution urging Shell to drastically reduce its spending on fossil fuel.Shell's board opposed the resolution, which was to be voted on at the annual general meeting in The Hague in May.Following talks with six of the 10 largest Dutch investors including Aegon and NN Investment Partners, Follow This decided to withdraw the resolution after filing similar motions at the previous three Shell AGMs."We have therefore decided to give Shell time to bring that climate ambition into line with the Paris Climate Agreement," Follow This founder Mark van Baal said in a statement.Follow This said Shell's ambition to halve overall emissions by 2050 needed to be "sharpened" in order to be aligned with the Paris Climate Agreement. AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — An activist group said it has withdrawn a shareholder resolution calling on Royal Dutch Shell to change its climate policy after the oil and gas company reached a broad agreement with investors on the issue.The Anglo-Dutch energy company drew rare praise from investors and environmental activists in December when it set out plans to introduce industry-leading targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and link them to executive pay.Nevertheless, Dutch activist group Follow This tabled several days later a resolution urging Shell to drastically reduce its spending on fossil fuel.Shell's board opposed the resolution, which was to be voted on at the annual general meeting in The Hague in May.Following talks with six of the 10 largest Dutch investors including Aegon and NN Investment Partners, Follow This decided to withdraw the resolution after filing similar motions at the previous three Shell AGMs."We have therefore decided to give Shell time to bring that climate ambition into line with the Paris Climate Agreement," Follow This founder Mark van Baal said in a statement.Follow This said Shell's ambition to halve overall emissions by 2050 needed to be "sharpened" in order to be aligned with the Paris Climate Agreement. AdvertisementSupported byBy Manuela Andreoni and Shasta DarlingtonBRUMADINHO, Brazil — Two days after a torrent of mud pouring from a ruptured mining dam left at least 58 dead and 305 missing in the Brazilian town of Brumadinho, residents had to evacuate Sunday as a second dam threatened to collapse, spurring panic and outrage at what residents called a lack of accountability for Brazil’s powerful mining industry.Sirens sounded before dawn, set off by heavy rains and dangerously high water levels at a dam at an iron ore complex owned by the Brazilian mining giant Vale S.A. Rescue workers looking for survivors from Friday’s disaster turned instead to evacuating residents to higher ground.By the end of the day, residents were allowed to return to their homes. But for many Brazilians, this latest warning was further evidence that the system regulating the mining industry is broken, risking people’s lives and endangering the environment.Still, few expect the rules to tighten under Brazil’s new president, Jair Bolsonaro, who promised during his campaign to restrict fines and ease regulations on mining and other industries that exploit natural resources.There are more than 400 mining dams like the one that broke in Brumadinho in the state of Minas Gerais, the hub of Brazil’s mining industry. Three years ago, another such mining dam burst in the city of Mariana, 75 miles away, killing 19 people and unleashing one of the worst environmental disasters in Brazilian history. That dam was jointly owned by Vale and the Anglo-Australian mining company BHP.JUNE 2018JAN. 2019BRAZILAREA OFDETAILMining facilityin BrumadinhoJAN. 2019JUNE 2018BRAZILAREA OFDETAILMining facilityin BrumadinhoJAN. 2019JUNE 2018BRAZILAREA OFDETAILMining facilityin BrumadinhoJAN. 2019JUNE 2018BRAZILAREA OFDETAILMining facilityin BrumadinhoBy The New York Times | Source: DigitalGlobeSome of the dams have been deemed “unstable” but have continued operating for years, said Bruno Milanez, a professor of industrial engineering at the Federal University of Juiz de Fora. What is frightening, he said, is that the dams that broke — in Mariana and Brumadinho — were certified as “stable.”In Brazil, independent auditors verify the safety of dams through regular inspections and analysis of written records. The problem, according to experts like Mr. Milanez and Luiz Jardim, a geography professor at the State University of Rio de Janeiro, is that the mining companies choose and contract with the auditors and provide all of the documentation that they analyze.And that has not changed in the three years since the Mariana disaster, Mr. Jardim said. If anything, the regulatory framework in the state has become looser, as a drop in international commodities prices has prompted mining companies to cut costs, in some cases leading them to fill dams beyond capacity, reduce safety budgets and fail to put emergency systems in place, experts said.“These are not exceptional events. Dams rupture. More will come,” Mr. Jardim said. “Either the monitoring system is flawed, or companies have figured out how to work around it.”Vale’s chief executive, Fabio Schvartsman, said the cause of Friday’s breach was still being investigated. The Brumadinho dam has been inactive for three years and had been certified as stable as recently as this past December.But a representative from Ibama, the federal environmental protection agency, warned at the time that the Brumadinho dams were not risk free.“Any negligence on the part of those conducting risk management, and they rupture,” the representative said, according to notes of a December state council meeting on mining regulations that were sent to The New York Times.At the meeting, council members voted on Vale’s request for a permit to expand operations in the mining compound that included the Brumadinho dam. Maria Teresa Corujo, an activist, was the only member to vote against it.“I feel a mixture of pain, disgust, hatred and indignation,” she said about the approval, adding that the mining industry in the state of Minas Gerais “dominates all of the levels of power, it co-opts and threatens.”One of the few concrete changes made after the Mariana disaster was a requirement that mining companies install alarms in communities at risk from dam breaks.Although the sirens blared ahead of the evacuation on Sunday, residents of Brumadinho said there was no warning ahead of the lethal torrent on Friday.“They told us that if anything ever happened, an alarm would go off to give us time to get everything out,” said Dari Pereira, 39, a machine operator who escaped with his family seconds before a river of sludge swept over his house Friday.There was no time to take clothes, the car or even pets, Mr. Pereira said. He heard a strange crackling sound, then the scream of his mother-in-law next door, saying the dam had broken. He ran, taking his children.“Seconds after we left, I saw a wave drag away everything, the house, everything,” he said.On Sunday, holed up in his sister’s house, he was woken up by sirens warning of a new threat.“I got so scared,” he said. “I thought, not again, my God!”Again the family ran out with just the clothes they were wearing, he said as he sat in a local health clinic with a small backpack of donated clothes and no clear idea of what to do next.As they tried to make sense of what had been lost, many residents wondered why they hadn’t been warned about the risks.Ademir Caricati, a community leader in the Parque da Cachoeira neighborhood, where roughly 40 houses were destroyed and at least one person was missing, said that Vale officials had told residents last year that the dam posed little danger.“We would be the first to die,” he remembered one official saying, pointing out that the mine’s administrative offices were right below the dam.Brazil’s attorney general, Raquel Dodge, announced a task force to investigate the cause of the Brumadinho disaster, and judges ordered Vale to set aside 11 billion reais, about $2.9 billion, to pay damages caused by the dam collapse.But experts said they were skeptical that much would improve under the new far-right president, Mr. Bolsonaro, who campaigned on a pro-business platform openly hostile to environmental regulations. He promised to open up protected lands to mining and to eliminate the “industry” of environmental fines.After surveying the disaster zone, both he and his environment minister, Ricardo Salles, said mining dams needed stricter regulation. But when Mr. Salles was the environment chief for the adjacent state of São Paulo, he tried, unsuccessfully, to make it easier for mining companies to get safety and environmental impact certificates.After the Mariana disaster, Vale and BHP committed $780 million to create a fund for reparations and repairs, and settled a lawsuit worth much more with Brazilian federal and state prosecutors. But critics say the lack of personal accountability — including jail time — for those responsible has fueled the sense of impunity.AdvertisementSupported byTrendingIf you’re passionate about wildlife, earth science or the environment, these tours are for you.By Nora WalshCitizen science travel, or trips where the traveler is encouraged to participate in scientific research through observation and data collection, is growing in popularity thanks in part to an increasing number of ecotourists who want to support research initiatives around the world. These travelers also want to contribute positively to the destinations they visit.The environmental charity Earthwatch has been sending volunteers on research trips for nearly fifty years, with tours focusing on climate change, ocean health, wildlife and ecosystems. Ecotourists collect and analyze environmental data that is used in the hope of advancing conservation efforts on a global scale.“We’ve seen a 20 percent rise in participation over the past five years,” said Scott Kania, Earthwatch’s chief executive. “Citizen science offers people the opportunity to own ecological problems and be a part of the solution.” According to a 2017 Earthwatch report, scientists and participants have discovered new species and gathered data that have been influential in establishing nature reserves and protecting endangered wildlife, like leatherback sea turtles in Costa Rica. The firm’s latest expedition takes citizen scientists to Peru on a weeklong journey to photograph, measure and collect genetic samples of giant manta rays with the goal to help halt overfishing.Earthwatch’s Peruvian expedition is $2,750 per person, and includes room and board, research permits, scientific equipment, airport and land transfers, and medevac insurance for the duration of the expedition.The travel outfitter Lindblad Expeditions-National Geographic is piggybacking on the success of last year’s pilot program, Citizen Science BioBlitz, with new 19-day expeditions to South Georgia & the Falkland Islands and Antarctica, South Georgia & the Falklands.“People want more than to tick a holiday box,” said Jimmy White, a naturalist who will lead participants as they record biodiversity levels and track king penguins, albatross and fur seals with wildlife photo identification. “There is no better classroom than in the field with experts documenting the natural world,” he added. Trips starting in 2020 will follow humpback whales in Alaska, sharks in the South Pacific and study microplastics in the Antarctic Peninsula.Prices per person for Lindblad Expeditions-National Geographic trips start from $17,940 based on double occupancy and include all food and beverage, excursions, onboard physician, hotels as indicated, and airport transfers.“Everyone from novice to expert has something to offer to conservation,” said Matthias Hammer, executive director of the international nonprofit Biosphere Expeditions. One of their most popular expeditions is surveying snow leopards in Kyrgyzstan, but they’ve launched a series of new trips including monitoring the “Big Five” in Kenya, tracking wildlife in Romania’s Transylvanian Alps and studying brown bears in Sweden. “Hard data forms the core of all scientific arguments, and we empower people to collect useful data to help preserve the planet,” he said.Prices for Biosphere Expeditions trips start from $1,670 per person and vary depending on destination and duration. They include room and board, meals, activities, and transportation beyond initial assembly point.Hotels are also responding to guests’ desire to seek a deeper connection to the places they’re visiting through environmental stewardship.Shinta Mani Wild, a new tented camp in Cambodia’s Cardamom Mountains, has partnered with Wildlife Alliance and the Cambodian government to safeguard an 800-acre river valley from poaching, logging and mining.“Our guests get a real thrill at hopping on the back of a rangers’ motorbike to save local wildlife by patrolling for poachers and clearing the jungle of hunting snares,” said Sangjay Choegyal, the general manager. Guests can also assist botanists in studying the rain forest’s rare orchids.Rates start at $2,345 per tent per night based on double occupancy, inclusive of all food and beverage, private guided activities and excursions, spa treatments, personal butler, airport transfers, and taxes. A minimum three-night stay is required and participants must be at least 13 years old.The freshly-renovated Daydream Island Resort, located on Australia’s Whitsunday Islands between Queensland and the Great Barrier Reef, is home to a nearly 700-foot free-form coral reef, a new educational center and an underwater observatory. Travelers have the opportunity to become “reef rangers,” assisting local marine biologists in stingray feedings, coral monitoring and marine health checks.Room rates start from AUD 392 (approx. $280) and include complimentary breakfast for two adults; all meals for children under 12 are included.Rainforest Expeditions, a tour operator which founded the Tambopata Macaw Project 30 years ago, organized a citizen science initiative called Wired Amazon in 2016.At Refugio Amazonas, their eco-lodge in Tambopata, Peru, guests are invited to participate in a number of interactive science programs including “AmazonCam Tambopata” and “Discovering New Species,” during which participants collect insects and officially name new species they uncover.“We’ve had over 1,500 guests participate in these activities,” said Rocio Guzman, Rainforest Expeditions’ marketing manager. “Their personal experience creates a link between them and the environment, which drives them to want to protect it.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler gave Reuters a wide-ranging interview on Thursday at his office in Washington, discussing issues from climate science to automobile emissions and biofuels policies.The following is an edited transcript of the interview: REUTERS: President Donald Trump gave you some work yesterday with executive orders to push states to speed energy projects. How do you plan to alter the state certification guidelines and how soon will you accomplish the task?WHEELER: We’ve already started work, it may surprise you but we knew about the announcement before yesterday. We started working on it in advance, so we hope to have something out soon. I don’t know when we will go final on it though. I’m not sure of the timing on that. We can probably follow up. It’s to provide more clarity around the program and provide some direction on what states should be looking at when they are doing their 401 certifications. It’s a program that hasn’t been updated in decades. I don’t think when it was originally drafted people were really anticipating the need for these export terminals and some of these other national projects. I don’t think people really anticipated that some states would kind of go beyond what was intended for their review. I’m not going to pick on anyone in particular, but Washington state, I don’t think they made their determination based on the impact of water in their state, they are trying to make international environmental policy. I don’t think section 401 was originally intended for states to make international environmental policy, I’m not just talking about U.S. policy. They’re trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used, and I think, outside the original intent of 401. So we’re going to put some more parameters around how 401 is used. We will follow the law though. The states will still have a lot of flexibility of course. Part of it is also on timeliness, the states should be issuing their decisions. Some of these decisions have taken years for the states.REUTERS: Critics say there is no way EPA can take the veto of the states out. That has to be an act of Congress.WHEELER: I’m not suggesting we’re taking the states’ veto out. What we want to do is provide more clarity around the program and provide the parameters on what states should review and how long that should take.REUTERS: What are some of the most important energy projects for you to push forward?WHEELER: Well, hopefully it would provide more direction to the states on looking at export terminals, LNG terminals, also some of the pipelines as well. I think it's more than a shame. I don’t know how far I want to go, but it’s pretty awful that we are importing natural gas to New England instead of transporting it via pipeline, natural gas, into New England. We are producing it in large quantities in the Marcellus Shale. Instead of using that natural gas, which is produced in the most environmentally conscious manner anywhere in the world, we are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner. If the states that are blocking the pipelines were truly concerned about the environment they would look to where the natural gas would be coming from, and they are forcing the New England states to use Russian-produced natural gas which is not as clean as U.S. natural gas. I think it’s very short-sighted.REUTERS: What is the timing on EPA work on the executive orders?WHEELER: I just don’t off the top of my head, I don’t remember the timing.REUTERS: Maybe six months?WHEELER: Again, I don’t want to put a date on the timing. Hopefully we will have our proposal out soon and go final shortly thereafter.Can we get back to you on the timing? I just had three budget hearings and I have a lot of facts and numbers in my head and this is a new one, and off the top of my head I do not remember how long that Dave Ross (the assistant administrator for the Office of Water) told me it was going to take.REUTERS: How do you respond to criticism that the Trump administration is setting policies that take aim at blue states or other states that focused on addressing climate change, or using permits to block projects they think are environmentally harmful?WHEELER: We are the United States Environmental Protection Agency so we are trying to apply policies even-handedly across all 50 states. What the president announced yesterday was an updated process for all 50 states. On the CAFE side we can't have a patchwork of automobile standards for some states and different standards for other states. This goes to WOTUS as well. We've had quite a few requests to extend the WOTUS comment period. And we're not doing that for the primary reason that right now we have 22 states following one set of WOTUS regulations and 28 states following another. I really want to move as quickly as we can to finalize WOTUS so we have the same regulations applying to all 50 states. Back on the CAFE. ... We are looking at this issue. California just looked at it in terms of energy efficiency. Having a separate standard for California, you are talking about a rounding error talking as far as the impact on CO2 worldwide. We are looking at more than energy efficiency. We are also looking at highway fatalities. There is other public policy interest that we have as a nation, that is I believe our responsibility. We are working with DOT jointly. Last week at the Washington Auto Show I said I hope California doesn't sue us. Our final regulation is not going to be the same as our proposal. I can't go into more detail because we are still reviewing the data and information, but we took comment and the final will not be the same. We have taken constructive comments, criticisms and concerns from a whole host of different interest groups, and I hope that our final regulation is something that everyone can get behind and support. It was 24 hours after I said I hope California doesn't feel the need to sue us that they went ahead and sued us. In my mind this is so much more about politics in the state of California than it is protecting the environment.REUTERS: The preferred option as you know, on CAFE, is a flatline. ... Is it safe to say that it is going to go up by some amount over a flatline? Is that how we should read your comments?WHEELER: I really can't say at this point what it's going to look like.REUTERS: There was a report out yesterday that you guys decided on a 1 percent per year increase. Is that accurate?WHEELER: It's different when you have anonymous sources making comments, but when the administrator of the EPA says what we're going to do or not going to do it's premature, and I really can't say anything on the record yet about what exactly we're going to do. But we've taken comments from a lot of different interest groups into account and we're trying to come up with a final regulation that addresses a majority of concerns.REUTERS: Do you think there was ever going to be a deal with California, given how far apart everyone was? The autos said, "Just, hey, pick a number anywhere in the middle as long as we have certainty about the program going forward." It looks like we are headed for sort of years of litigation.WHEELER: And I hope not and I really did hope that we could reach an agreement. You know it is interesting when the auto companies came in after our proposal came out, they told me that some of the out years -- our numbers are actually more stringent than the Obama numbers because Obama had more exemptions and offramps and flexibilities put in -- so that some of the offyears they told us that our numbers are more stringent. So that tells me that at the end of the day our proposals weren't that far apart, but they, I think, use it more for social engineering and for politics and we're looking at it more on the technical side as far as what is feasible, what can be accomplished. One thing Obama administration did not do in their mid-term evaluation was take into account real time data as far as what Americans was purchasing. The length of age of cars on the road. I think they were still looking at 2000 data saying that average age of an automobile is 8 years old, when it's actually now 12. It makes a big difference. By lowering the price of a car, we're hopefully going to get some of the older cars off the road. Getting the older cars off the road improves public safety as well as environment. The midterm evaluation by the Obama administration was a rush job. It was absolutely a rush job. They started it November 2016 after the election, they did a 15-day notice in comment and they finalized it before Jan. 20th. You just can't review all the data and inputs in that sort of time and they didn't. They didn't look at the most recent data and information.REUTERS: Do you think that the Obama administration was trying to disfavor fossil fuels and favor EVs?WHEELER: Oh absolutely. The only way you could comply ultimately with Obama numbers is to have 30 percent electric vehicles and that's not what American consumers are buying. Right now we're...2 percent electric vehicles. I don't think this country is going to turn the fleet over to get to 30 percent electric vehicles by 2025. I just don't think that's possible. The automobile companies are paying a record number of fees for non-compliance. In 2016 - is the last year of data we have - I believe it was $100 million that they paid in 2015 or 2016 for non-compliance with the standards and it's projected to get up to $1 billion...if the Obama regs were left in place. By the end of Obama CAFE standards. It was projected close to $1 billion that they're paying each year for inability to comply with Obama standards. We're trying to have realistic standards. ... There's certainly a marketplace for automobile manufacturers to go above and beyond CAFE standards. ... There is a market for people that went above and beyond. We don't think, number one, we're not using this for social engineering, we think we should have realistic regulations that companies can comply with. There's only three companies this year that are able to comply with Obama regulations. We're still keeping the regulations in place, we still have two years of complying but companies are not able to comply. REUTERS: Some of the critics say, 'Hey you're doing this for the oil industry,'...Because oil consumption will go up.WHEELER: I have not met with a single oil company over CAFE standards since I've been in this job. The first person who told me that I was trying to do this for the oil companies was Senator Markey. When I met with him, it actually kind of threw me. There is on that I don't remember as company, was a trade association. What they've lobbied with me over the last year was RFS. And there was one meeting when one of them was in the room, as they were leaving they said, "I don't want this to be a totally negative meeting, we like what you're doing on CAFE." We're not doing it for the oil industry, that's the extent of conversations I've had with the oil industry on our CAFE proposals. It wasn't immediate in my mind why they like it but this is nothing to do with the oil industry. We're not doing it for the oil industry, I'm not doing it for the oil industry. REUTERS: That meeting about RFS did go badly, and that CAFE ended up being the only positive thing, as you just said it. WHEELER: That was like last summer. The RFS program... I was hoping that I could get everybody to like what we're doing. At this point I am just hoping everybody dislikes me equally. We're moving forward with the E15 and RIN market reforms in our proposal. We hope to have those finalized by May 30th, in time for the summer driving season. Seriously, there are things in that that are for both sides to be very happy about. The RIN price mechanisms should help bring down and keep the price of RINs lower and stable, which the oil industry likes. And the E15 is something that the ethanol industry likes. So hopefully we are helping both sides and moving forward with some policy that everyone can get behind and like.REUTERS: So there are no plans to separate them (E15 and RIN market reform)?WHEELER: No, they'll come out at the same time.REUTERS: What's your contingency plan in case it gets sued and a court would issue a injunction that would stop the implementation of E15?WHEELER: I don't look for that to happen, I think we're on very solid legal ground with E15. I do try to anticipate court action but we can't regulate based on what we might fear from courts. I think legally we're on solid ground with E15.REUTERS: USDA has suggested that there could be a discretionary enforcement. Once Secretary Perdue mentioned it as well. Is that still a contingency plan?WHEELER: We will have it ready in time for summer driving season. We won't have to do anything like that.REUTERS: On the small refinery waivers, which is the big issue, we've heard people like Senator Grassley and Senator Ernst almost openly saying that they expect EPA under your leadership to change tack from how your predecessor was issuing the SREs. What is your response to that?WHEELER: We have already changed tack in the sense that we're being much more transparent. We've created the dashboard last fall where we're putting our information out in real-time on the small refinery waivers program and we're being more upfront about what we're doing and why we're doing it. So we have changed tack. But the small refinery exemption program is authorized under the law. EPA was not implementing it, and we were sued three times and we lost three times. And we received appropriations language directing us to implement the small refinery exemptions program and we are. We will continue to, we will continue to follow the law. Under the way the process works is that they apply to Department of Energy first, and DOE reviews the information and determines whether or not there's a hardship, an economic hardship for the refineries. And they submit their recommendations to us, we review the information, we look at it, we compare it with the data that we have and we go forward with a yes or no with the small refinery waiver.REUTERS: Should the market expect fewer? There is the (possibility of) full waivers, partial waivers and simply fewer waivers.WHEELER: You don't get a small refinery exemption for the life of your refinery. It is based on economic data from year-to-year. Just looking at it from where I sit, and I have not reviewed the information from DOE yet, but the RIN prices have been relatively low and relatively calm since last spring so that would tell me that there should be less economic harm in the refining industry right now than there was a year ago. There's more than just the price of RINs for economic harm, but just by that factor alone, I'd think maybe there would be fewer refinery exemptions because of that. Because we certainly do take a look at real-time data on the economic harm imposed on the small refineries. So that's certainly one and that's only one of the economic indicators, but it's an important one. Last spring the RIN prices got up over a dollar and they remained under 20 cents since then. Most of the time they've been around 10-12 cents a credit. I'm not an economist but I would think that would factor into whether or not there's an economic harm for a refinery.REUTERS: Has this process been slowed because of the political considerations? The market was expecting 2018 decisions before March 30.WHEELER: We still have not received the DOE recommendations yet. I'm told we might start receiving by the end of this week but we haven't received them yet. We have not held up anything. We had a couple that were left over from 2017. We processed most of 2017. But we had a couple that came in late, one that required a little more analysis, but we haven't physically received. We got a list from the Department of Energy a couple weeks ago of the 2018 universe but they haven't actually forwarded their recommendations to us yet.REUTERS: So if the DOE input arrives by the end of the week then what are we looking at timing-wise?WHEELER: Our technical guys then take a look what DOE sends us. If they send us 30 of them in one day, it may take us a while to process all of them. If we get one or two...it would be a little bit easier to process them if they're scattered, but I don't know how DOE plans on sending them over. So I can't hazard to guess on how long it's going to take us until we see what the universe is and the amount of data we have from the DOE.REUTERS: Co2 emissions have gone up by the largest amount in eight years. According to some studies, Co2 emissions would go up under your proposed ACE (Affordable Clean Energy Rule). This would suggest stronger regulation is needed. What do you define as strong regulation?WHEELER: Strong regulation is legal regulation. The CPP (Clean Power Plan)... I get accused of rolling back the CPP by environmentalists and Democrats on the Hill. My simple answer to that is you can't roll back a regulation that never went into effect. The CPP was stayed by the Supreme Court. It is rare for the SCOTUS to stay a regulation in the environmental legal arena. I think that is very noteworthy. There was a lot of criticism at the time that it went beyond the Clean Air Act. You go back to the MATS decision. After EPA lost the MATS decision the administrator at the time said it didn't really matter since everyone has already complied with it anyway. When I read the MATS decision at the time I think I said in a blog post somewhere I thought Justice Scalia...he was writing toward the case he hadn't received yet, the Clean Power Plan. ... I was not completely surprised by the SCOTUS stay of the CPP. I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and will be held up in courts. So we took a hard look at where we believe the Obama administration was wrong on CPP and what was outside the bounds of the CAA and the fact they went outside the fenceline. I think that was one of the main sticking points and the rationale for the stay. What we did was to put forward a proposal that follows the authority Congress has given us. I believe the ACE regulation is going to stand up in court. It is going to give real reduction. We are projecting a reduction of 34 percent in the electric power sector over the life of the regulation. I think that is the responsible thing for the agency to do. I don't think it's responsible with our form of government with three branches, I don't think it's EPA's job to write the legislation on its own. We have to follow the statutory constraints Congress has given us, and I think we are doing that under the ACE proposal. I believe we are on a course of getting meaningful Co2 reduction. I think that's the responsible thing for a regulatory agency to do.REUTERS: EPA scientists recently published a report looking at the impacts of climate change across 22 sectors and said early adaption could reduce its worst impacts. Some of your scientists internally continue to believe more stringent action is needed to address climate change. You have said in a hearing that climate change is not the greatest problem facing us right now. Do you trust your internal scientists?WHEELER: I trust my internal scientists. I trust my career scientists. That study is not an EPA study. We encourage our scientists, we have some of the leading scientists in the world working on a number of environmental issues. We encourage our scientists to publish. But just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesn't mean that that's agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study. There is a process for statement from the agency. There is a process where we go through intra-agency review where we have a review by all the offices. Then governmental review. Those studies were not EPA studies. We all encourage our scientists to conduct research, but I don't think you should confuse a study published by one of our scientists as official EPA policy. I have not read that article, I just saw a news a clip about it, but I haven't read it and I haven't talked to the scientist that wrote it. But I have had several briefings from our career scientists on climate change and asked questions about climate change and that informs the decisions that I make. I can't just look at the science in a vacuum. We are not a science academy making proclamations about science. We are a regulatory agency. We have to take the science we have developed and apply it to our regulatory constraints that we have and regulatory authorities that we have and move forward. I said before I took this job that I believe in climate change and man has an impact on climate change. But I believe the number one issue facing our planet today is water. I've been saying that for a number of years. I said that at a climate conference at MIT back in the early 2000s. It wasn't well received then and it's not always well received now. But it's the truth. When you have a thousand children that die a day from lack of drinking water, that's a crisis and that's a crisis that we - we collectively as the world - know how to solve that problem. We know what it takes but we haven't had the will internationally to solve that problem. And we do a number of pilots around the world and a number of other organizations both public and private and international do pilot programs and they work with the community on drinking water here and there. What we need to do is take those pilots to the next generation. We have a good story to tell in the United States. Our water is not perfect but 92 percent of our water systems meet the EPA standards every day. We are working on a lot of innovative ways to provide safer drinking water to the American public. Innovative financing ways. In addition to the SRF we have the WIFIA (Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act) program. It's the second year of that. We've only issued eight grants under WIFIA loan program. We just announced the next round of grants. We just published it last Friday and communities have until July 5 to give us a letter of intent for the next round for WIFIA loans. If you could work that in, that would be great so the public knows it's out there.REUTERS: Jumping onto PFAS, the kind of process how EPA addresses PFAS and PFOA, ... why didn't EPA set the maximum contaminant level?WHEELER: This is a process under the law of setting the MCL and we started the process. I've actually been surprised by the heat we have taken regarding the PFAS and PFOA management plan. That was a career staff document and remains the most comprehensive action plan this agency has ever developed for an emerging chemical concern. We had people from all of our program offices working on that. What I tasked everyone with was to go back and be creative and look at the authorities we have and figure out how many different ways we can address this issue and what we can do with the American public to make sure we are addressing PFAS and PFOA. And they came back with some really creative ideas. And we are moving forward. And we're moving forward not only on the MCL side but on other - on TRI, the Superfund program, the CERCLA program. We are addressing it through all of our staff. And at the time, we are conducting more research. Since the report came out we've had this incident in New Mexico with cows and we're now working with the USDA, trying to do some cutting edge research there. I've visited three of our labs that do PFAS and PFOA research. I was just in our Cincinnati lab and they do PFAS and PFOA research there. There is a misconception out there that we know what the problem is and we know how to fix it. There are thousands of PFAS and PFOA chemicals out there - there's long chain and short chain. We are still trying to figure out which ones are the most harmful to the public. I was under the misconception that the same treatment will work for any of the PFAS PFOA substances but it doesn't. Some of the treatment technologies work for some and they don't work for others. We have a lot of research to do. We are doing more research on identifying up front through our chemicals program as far as taking a look at significant new uses before anybody could start putting into commerce new PFAS and PFOA compounds, whether or not they pose a problem to environmental or public health. We're looking at how to detect when they are in the water easier and when to test for them. It's not the same test for all of the compounds either. At the same time we haven't slowed down on enforcing. We have taken eight enforcement actions and in addition we provided technical assistance to a couple of dozen other enforcement actions by states and local governments around the country. So some of the communities and members of Congress have complained that our state is having to clean this up without EPA assistance. Actually no, we are providing the technical assistance so they know how to clean it up, we are providing the technical assistance so they know how to detect it. We are also doing some really innovative imaging - GIS - to figure out where the problems might be before they are detected. We know where the chemicals were produced. We know where they were manufactured. We also know to some certainty where they were used the most ... airports and firefighting ... so we are able to use our GIS mapping to overlay that with the water systems and aquifers to go out to the communities and test before people there realize it. We are using some innovative GIS technology to try and anticipate where the next problem may occur. We are really at the forefront of this. I just applaud our career staff, many of them...pulled all-nighters to get everything together.REUTERS: A lot of young people look at what your EPA is doing on emissions... and they look at your comments that climate is not the most important environmental problem...WHEELER: But it’s important and we are addressing it.REUTERS: But they point out water issues are part of the climate change problem, especially with drought.WHEELER: Oh sure, and I’ve said that, that climate impacts water. But the problems we are having with water have been around long before climate was an issue. We’ve had problems on water infrastructure, on waste in the oceans, and in drinking water for a hundred years.REUTERS: Do you worry that concern about a lack of leadership on climate change will spur a movement that will get Democrats elected next year?WHEELER: I can’t look at the politics of this, that’s just not my job. I can’t look at the politics and how this is going to impact elections. I have to address the environmental issues and problems as I see them and as they are presented to me by the people here at the agency. Yes, climate is an issue and we are working to address it, but I think water is a bigger issue and I talk about both and continue to. But there hasn’t been enough talk about water. The previous administration focused all their energies on one issue and that was climate change. You take a look at the website that we are accused of taking all the climate change information off the website. We didn’t. It's on there, it’s archived, but it’s on there. But that’s not the only environmental issue the world faces. I do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change, you’re right, there could very well be a new generation coming up saying that’s the only environmental issue. And it's not. I am going to have to be very careful in how I say this, because I don’t want to be misrepresented here. If I could go off on plastic straws for a second. Yes, it’s important to get all plastic out of the waste stream. Are plastic straws the be-all and end-all of this? No. By definition of the size of the straw and the amount of waste the straw makes up. My biggest concern is that in switching away from plastic straws that people are going to think that that problem is solved because they are no longer using a plastic straw. And that doesn’t solve the problem. We have the same issue on recycling. We have a huge recycling crisis right now, there are not enough products for recycled material to go into. We are just stockpiling recycled materials in warehouses. When I say "we" it’s not the EPA. Recycled products are being stockpiled in warehouses and loading docks around the country because China quit accepting the materials a few years ago. But most Americans think if I put my stuff in the recycling bin at the street corner the problem is solved. That doesn’t solve the problem. We hosted a recycling summit last fall, the first time the agency ever did that. We brought in the people from the entire value chain, from the manufacturers of the raw virgin materials through the manufacturers of the goods, to the packagers, to the people who collect the recycle materials, to the end users who take the materials and turn it into new products, and we gave them four charges to work on, and we’ve had continuing meetings with the groups since then and we are going to have another summit this fall. I have a real concern and this is part media, part politician, people talk about this issue du jour and that’s all people focus on and they don’t realize that that’s not solving all the problems that are out there.REUTERS: For your policies to be effective, you would need Trump to win.WHEELER: He’s going to. I’m looking at a five-and-a-half-year planning horizon at this point. I’m going to have five-and-a-half years to complete everything we are trying to do. And it's why I continue to talk about water and the importance about doing something for water.REUTERS: You guys told the autos on a call that you were targeting May or June to finalize rule. Is that still the case?WHEELER: What I said in the auto show last week was I'm targeting late spring, early summer. And I do that because seasons last lot longer than people realize. We hope to get it as quickly as possible. We're working with DOT. It's a complex rule-making. We hope to get it out as quickly as possible.REUTERS: On diesel, you've gotten aggressive on enforcing the diesel cases. Do you think that the auto community got the message that you're going to catch cheating? WHEELER: I hope so. Because we are. If there is cheating we are going to catch it. It's not just the automobile manufacturers, it's the after-market defeat devices. We've taken a lot of enforcement action to get defeat devices off the roads. It's not just setting standards, you have to enforce the laws, too. And we're doing much more enforcement than we're given credit for. REUTERS: How are you going to accommodate the oil states and corn states under the RFS (Renewable Fuel Standard)?WHEELER: RFS is a very important program. I worked on the legislation in 2004 and 2007. I was the staff director for both of those energy bills on the environment committee. This was an issue that went on to the environment committee. It was not in the jurisdiction of the energy committee, it's the jurisdiction of environment committee. But it's a very important program. The way it was set up, we're going to have rule-makings every year. We have to do the RVO (Renewable Volume Obligation) every year. We've done another thing on certainty, which the oil industry was very happy that we did, was to get the RVO out on time the last two years. It's the first time that's ever happened. Providing more certainty, more transparency helps the program and we're hoping to do that. We're being very transparent on what we're doing on the E15 and the RIN price mechanisms. So I think the fact that the RIN prices have been low for almost a year shows that program is working and there's transparency and the market is stabilized. It's when you have uncertainty, regulatory uncertainty, congressional uncertainty that can ripple through the RIN price markets. AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Andrew Wheeler gave Reuters a wide-ranging interview on Thursday at his office in Washington, discussing issues from climate science to automobile emissions and biofuels policies.The following is an edited transcript of the interview: REUTERS: President Donald Trump gave you some work yesterday with executive orders to push states to speed energy projects. How do you plan to alter the state certification guidelines and how soon will you accomplish the task?WHEELER: We’ve already started work, it may surprise you but we knew about the announcement before yesterday. We started working on it in advance, so we hope to have something out soon. I don’t know when we will go final on it though. I’m not sure of the timing on that. We can probably follow up. It’s to provide more clarity around the program and provide some direction on what states should be looking at when they are doing their 401 certifications. It’s a program that hasn’t been updated in decades. I don’t think when it was originally drafted people were really anticipating the need for these export terminals and some of these other national projects. I don’t think people really anticipated that some states would kind of go beyond what was intended for their review. I’m not going to pick on anyone in particular, but Washington state, I don’t think they made their determination based on the impact of water in their state, they are trying to make international environmental policy. I don’t think section 401 was originally intended for states to make international environmental policy, I’m not just talking about U.S. policy. They’re trying to dictate to the world how much coal is used, and I think, outside the original intent of 401. So we’re going to put some more parameters around how 401 is used. We will follow the law though. The states will still have a lot of flexibility of course. Part of it is also on timeliness, the states should be issuing their decisions. Some of these decisions have taken years for the states.REUTERS: Critics say there is no way EPA can take the veto of the states out. That has to be an act of Congress.WHEELER: I’m not suggesting we’re taking the states’ veto out. What we want to do is provide more clarity around the program and provide the parameters on what states should review and how long that should take.REUTERS: What are some of the most important energy projects for you to push forward?WHEELER: Well, hopefully it would provide more direction to the states on looking at export terminals, LNG terminals, also some of the pipelines as well. I think it's more than a shame. I don’t know how far I want to go, but it’s pretty awful that we are importing natural gas to New England instead of transporting it via pipeline, natural gas, into New England. We are producing it in large quantities in the Marcellus Shale. Instead of using that natural gas, which is produced in the most environmentally conscious manner anywhere in the world, we are importing Russian natural gas which is not produced in an environmentally conscious manner. If the states that are blocking the pipelines were truly concerned about the environment they would look to where the natural gas would be coming from, and they are forcing the New England states to use Russian-produced natural gas which is not as clean as U.S. natural gas. I think it’s very short-sighted.REUTERS: What is the timing on EPA work on the executive orders?WHEELER: I just don’t off the top of my head, I don’t remember the timing.REUTERS: Maybe six months?WHEELER: Again, I don’t want to put a date on the timing. Hopefully we will have our proposal out soon and go final shortly thereafter.Can we get back to you on the timing? I just had three budget hearings and I have a lot of facts and numbers in my head and this is a new one, and off the top of my head I do not remember how long that Dave Ross (the assistant administrator for the Office of Water) told me it was going to take.REUTERS: How do you respond to criticism that the Trump administration is setting policies that take aim at blue states or other states that focused on addressing climate change, or using permits to block projects they think are environmentally harmful?WHEELER: We are the United States Environmental Protection Agency so we are trying to apply policies even-handedly across all 50 states. What the president announced yesterday was an updated process for all 50 states. On the CAFE side we can't have a patchwork of automobile standards for some states and different standards for other states. This goes to WOTUS as well. We've had quite a few requests to extend the WOTUS comment period. And we're not doing that for the primary reason that right now we have 22 states following one set of WOTUS regulations and 28 states following another. I really want to move as quickly as we can to finalize WOTUS so we have the same regulations applying to all 50 states. Back on the CAFE. ... We are looking at this issue. California just looked at it in terms of energy efficiency. Having a separate standard for California, you are talking about a rounding error talking as far as the impact on CO2 worldwide. We are looking at more than energy efficiency. We are also looking at highway fatalities. There is other public policy interest that we have as a nation, that is I believe our responsibility. We are working with DOT jointly. Last week at the Washington Auto Show I said I hope California doesn't sue us. Our final regulation is not going to be the same as our proposal. I can't go into more detail because we are still reviewing the data and information, but we took comment and the final will not be the same. We have taken constructive comments, criticisms and concerns from a whole host of different interest groups, and I hope that our final regulation is something that everyone can get behind and support. It was 24 hours after I said I hope California doesn't feel the need to sue us that they went ahead and sued us. In my mind this is so much more about politics in the state of California than it is protecting the environment.REUTERS: The preferred option as you know, on CAFE, is a flatline. ... Is it safe to say that it is going to go up by some amount over a flatline? Is that how we should read your comments?WHEELER: I really can't say at this point what it's going to look like.REUTERS: There was a report out yesterday that you guys decided on a 1 percent per year increase. Is that accurate?WHEELER: It's different when you have anonymous sources making comments, but when the administrator of the EPA says what we're going to do or not going to do it's premature, and I really can't say anything on the record yet about what exactly we're going to do. But we've taken comments from a lot of different interest groups into account and we're trying to come up with a final regulation that addresses a majority of concerns.REUTERS: Do you think there was ever going to be a deal with California, given how far apart everyone was? The autos said, "Just, hey, pick a number anywhere in the middle as long as we have certainty about the program going forward." It looks like we are headed for sort of years of litigation.WHEELER: And I hope not and I really did hope that we could reach an agreement. You know it is interesting when the auto companies came in after our proposal came out, they told me that some of the out years -- our numbers are actually more stringent than the Obama numbers because Obama had more exemptions and offramps and flexibilities put in -- so that some of the offyears they told us that our numbers are more stringent. So that tells me that at the end of the day our proposals weren't that far apart, but they, I think, use it more for social engineering and for politics and we're looking at it more on the technical side as far as what is feasible, what can be accomplished. One thing Obama administration did not do in their mid-term evaluation was take into account real time data as far as what Americans was purchasing. The length of age of cars on the road. I think they were still looking at 2000 data saying that average age of an automobile is 8 years old, when it's actually now 12. It makes a big difference. By lowering the price of a car, we're hopefully going to get some of the older cars off the road. Getting the older cars off the road improves public safety as well as environment. The midterm evaluation by the Obama administration was a rush job. It was absolutely a rush job. They started it November 2016 after the election, they did a 15-day notice in comment and they finalized it before Jan. 20th. You just can't review all the data and inputs in that sort of time and they didn't. They didn't look at the most recent data and information.REUTERS: Do you think that the Obama administration was trying to disfavor fossil fuels and favor EVs?WHEELER: Oh absolutely. The only way you could comply ultimately with Obama numbers is to have 30 percent electric vehicles and that's not what American consumers are buying. Right now we're...2 percent electric vehicles. I don't think this country is going to turn the fleet over to get to 30 percent electric vehicles by 2025. I just don't think that's possible. The automobile companies are paying a record number of fees for non-compliance. In 2016 - is the last year of data we have - I believe it was $100 million that they paid in 2015 or 2016 for non-compliance with the standards and it's projected to get up to $1 billion...if the Obama regs were left in place. By the end of Obama CAFE standards. It was projected close to $1 billion that they're paying each year for inability to comply with Obama standards. We're trying to have realistic standards. ... There's certainly a marketplace for automobile manufacturers to go above and beyond CAFE standards. ... There is a market for people that went above and beyond. We don't think, number one, we're not using this for social engineering, we think we should have realistic regulations that companies can comply with. There's only three companies this year that are able to comply with Obama regulations. We're still keeping the regulations in place, we still have two years of complying but companies are not able to comply. REUTERS: Some of the critics say, 'Hey you're doing this for the oil industry,'...Because oil consumption will go up.WHEELER: I have not met with a single oil company over CAFE standards since I've been in this job. The first person who told me that I was trying to do this for the oil companies was Senator Markey. When I met with him, it actually kind of threw me. There is on that I don't remember as company, was a trade association. What they've lobbied with me over the last year was RFS. And there was one meeting when one of them was in the room, as they were leaving they said, "I don't want this to be a totally negative meeting, we like what you're doing on CAFE." We're not doing it for the oil industry, that's the extent of conversations I've had with the oil industry on our CAFE proposals. It wasn't immediate in my mind why they like it but this is nothing to do with the oil industry. We're not doing it for the oil industry, I'm not doing it for the oil industry. REUTERS: That meeting about RFS did go badly, and that CAFE ended up being the only positive thing, as you just said it. WHEELER: That was like last summer. The RFS program... I was hoping that I could get everybody to like what we're doing. At this point I am just hoping everybody dislikes me equally. We're moving forward with the E15 and RIN market reforms in our proposal. We hope to have those finalized by May 30th, in time for the summer driving season. Seriously, there are things in that that are for both sides to be very happy about. The RIN price mechanisms should help bring down and keep the price of RINs lower and stable, which the oil industry likes. And the E15 is something that the ethanol industry likes. So hopefully we are helping both sides and moving forward with some policy that everyone can get behind and like.REUTERS: So there are no plans to separate them (E15 and RIN market reform)?WHEELER: No, they'll come out at the same time.REUTERS: What's your contingency plan in case it gets sued and a court would issue a injunction that would stop the implementation of E15?WHEELER: I don't look for that to happen, I think we're on very solid legal ground with E15. I do try to anticipate court action but we can't regulate based on what we might fear from courts. I think legally we're on solid ground with E15.REUTERS: USDA has suggested that there could be a discretionary enforcement. Once Secretary Perdue mentioned it as well. Is that still a contingency plan?WHEELER: We will have it ready in time for summer driving season. We won't have to do anything like that.REUTERS: On the small refinery waivers, which is the big issue, we've heard people like Senator Grassley and Senator Ernst almost openly saying that they expect EPA under your leadership to change tack from how your predecessor was issuing the SREs. What is your response to that?WHEELER: We have already changed tack in the sense that we're being much more transparent. We've created the dashboard last fall where we're putting our information out in real-time on the small refinery waivers program and we're being more upfront about what we're doing and why we're doing it. So we have changed tack. But the small refinery exemption program is authorized under the law. EPA was not implementing it, and we were sued three times and we lost three times. And we received appropriations language directing us to implement the small refinery exemptions program and we are. We will continue to, we will continue to follow the law. Under the way the process works is that they apply to Department of Energy first, and DOE reviews the information and determines whether or not there's a hardship, an economic hardship for the refineries. And they submit their recommendations to us, we review the information, we look at it, we compare it with the data that we have and we go forward with a yes or no with the small refinery waiver.REUTERS: Should the market expect fewer? There is the (possibility of) full waivers, partial waivers and simply fewer waivers.WHEELER: You don't get a small refinery exemption for the life of your refinery. It is based on economic data from year-to-year. Just looking at it from where I sit, and I have not reviewed the information from DOE yet, but the RIN prices have been relatively low and relatively calm since last spring so that would tell me that there should be less economic harm in the refining industry right now than there was a year ago. There's more than just the price of RINs for economic harm, but just by that factor alone, I'd think maybe there would be fewer refinery exemptions because of that. Because we certainly do take a look at real-time data on the economic harm imposed on the small refineries. So that's certainly one and that's only one of the economic indicators, but it's an important one. Last spring the RIN prices got up over a dollar and they remained under 20 cents since then. Most of the time they've been around 10-12 cents a credit. I'm not an economist but I would think that would factor into whether or not there's an economic harm for a refinery.REUTERS: Has this process been slowed because of the political considerations? The market was expecting 2018 decisions before March 30.WHEELER: We still have not received the DOE recommendations yet. I'm told we might start receiving by the end of this week but we haven't received them yet. We have not held up anything. We had a couple that were left over from 2017. We processed most of 2017. But we had a couple that came in late, one that required a little more analysis, but we haven't physically received. We got a list from the Department of Energy a couple weeks ago of the 2018 universe but they haven't actually forwarded their recommendations to us yet.REUTERS: So if the DOE input arrives by the end of the week then what are we looking at timing-wise?WHEELER: Our technical guys then take a look what DOE sends us. If they send us 30 of them in one day, it may take us a while to process all of them. If we get one or two...it would be a little bit easier to process them if they're scattered, but I don't know how DOE plans on sending them over. So I can't hazard to guess on how long it's going to take us until we see what the universe is and the amount of data we have from the DOE.REUTERS: Co2 emissions have gone up by the largest amount in eight years. According to some studies, Co2 emissions would go up under your proposed ACE (Affordable Clean Energy Rule). This would suggest stronger regulation is needed. What do you define as strong regulation?WHEELER: Strong regulation is legal regulation. The CPP (Clean Power Plan)... I get accused of rolling back the CPP by environmentalists and Democrats on the Hill. My simple answer to that is you can't roll back a regulation that never went into effect. The CPP was stayed by the Supreme Court. It is rare for the SCOTUS to stay a regulation in the environmental legal arena. I think that is very noteworthy. There was a lot of criticism at the time that it went beyond the Clean Air Act. You go back to the MATS decision. After EPA lost the MATS decision the administrator at the time said it didn't really matter since everyone has already complied with it anyway. When I read the MATS decision at the time I think I said in a blog post somewhere I thought Justice Scalia...he was writing toward the case he hadn't received yet, the Clean Power Plan. ... I was not completely surprised by the SCOTUS stay of the CPP. I think what is effective regulation is one that follows the law and will be held up in courts. So we took a hard look at where we believe the Obama administration was wrong on CPP and what was outside the bounds of the CAA and the fact they went outside the fenceline. I think that was one of the main sticking points and the rationale for the stay. What we did was to put forward a proposal that follows the authority Congress has given us. I believe the ACE regulation is going to stand up in court. It is going to give real reduction. We are projecting a reduction of 34 percent in the electric power sector over the life of the regulation. I think that is the responsible thing for the agency to do. I don't think it's responsible with our form of government with three branches, I don't think it's EPA's job to write the legislation on its own. We have to follow the statutory constraints Congress has given us, and I think we are doing that under the ACE proposal. I believe we are on a course of getting meaningful Co2 reduction. I think that's the responsible thing for a regulatory agency to do.REUTERS: EPA scientists recently published a report looking at the impacts of climate change across 22 sectors and said early adaption could reduce its worst impacts. Some of your scientists internally continue to believe more stringent action is needed to address climate change. You have said in a hearing that climate change is not the greatest problem facing us right now. Do you trust your internal scientists?WHEELER: I trust my internal scientists. I trust my career scientists. That study is not an EPA study. We encourage our scientists, we have some of the leading scientists in the world working on a number of environmental issues. We encourage our scientists to publish. But just because our scientists publish something in a journal doesn't mean that that's agency policy or all the other scientists at the agency agree with that particular study. There is a process for statement from the agency. There is a process where we go through intra-agency review where we have a review by all the offices. Then governmental review. Those studies were not EPA studies. We all encourage our scientists to conduct research, but I don't think you should confuse a study published by one of our scientists as official EPA policy. I have not read that article, I just saw a news a clip about it, but I haven't read it and I haven't talked to the scientist that wrote it. But I have had several briefings from our career scientists on climate change and asked questions about climate change and that informs the decisions that I make. I can't just look at the science in a vacuum. We are not a science academy making proclamations about science. We are a regulatory agency. We have to take the science we have developed and apply it to our regulatory constraints that we have and regulatory authorities that we have and move forward. I said before I took this job that I believe in climate change and man has an impact on climate change. But I believe the number one issue facing our planet today is water. I've been saying that for a number of years. I said that at a climate conference at MIT back in the early 2000s. It wasn't well received then and it's not always well received now. But it's the truth. When you have a thousand children that die a day from lack of drinking water, that's a crisis and that's a crisis that we - we collectively as the world - know how to solve that problem. We know what it takes but we haven't had the will internationally to solve that problem. And we do a number of pilots around the world and a number of other organizations both public and private and international do pilot programs and they work with the community on drinking water here and there. What we need to do is take those pilots to the next generation. We have a good story to tell in the United States. Our water is not perfect but 92 percent of our water systems meet the EPA standards every day. We are working on a lot of innovative ways to provide safer drinking water to the American public. Innovative financing ways. In addition to the SRF we have the WIFIA (Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act) program. It's the second year of that. We've only issued eight grants under WIFIA loan program. We just announced the next round of grants. We just published it last Friday and communities have until July 5 to give us a letter of intent for the next round for WIFIA loans. If you could work that in, that would be great so the public knows it's out there.REUTERS: Jumping onto PFAS, the kind of process how EPA addresses PFAS and PFOA, ... why didn't EPA set the maximum contaminant level?WHEELER: This is a process under the law of setting the MCL and we started the process. I've actually been surprised by the heat we have taken regarding the PFAS and PFOA management plan. That was a career staff document and remains the most comprehensive action plan this agency has ever developed for an emerging chemical concern. We had people from all of our program offices working on that. What I tasked everyone with was to go back and be creative and look at the authorities we have and figure out how many different ways we can address this issue and what we can do with the American public to make sure we are addressing PFAS and PFOA. And they came back with some really creative ideas. And we are moving forward. And we're moving forward not only on the MCL side but on other - on TRI, the Superfund program, the CERCLA program. We are addressing it through all of our staff. And at the time, we are conducting more research. Since the report came out we've had this incident in New Mexico with cows and we're now working with the USDA, trying to do some cutting edge research there. I've visited three of our labs that do PFAS and PFOA research. I was just in our Cincinnati lab and they do PFAS and PFOA research there. There is a misconception out there that we know what the problem is and we know how to fix it. There are thousands of PFAS and PFOA chemicals out there - there's long chain and short chain. We are still trying to figure out which ones are the most harmful to the public. I was under the misconception that the same treatment will work for any of the PFAS PFOA substances but it doesn't. Some of the treatment technologies work for some and they don't work for others. We have a lot of research to do. We are doing more research on identifying up front through our chemicals program as far as taking a look at significant new uses before anybody could start putting into commerce new PFAS and PFOA compounds, whether or not they pose a problem to environmental or public health. We're looking at how to detect when they are in the water easier and when to test for them. It's not the same test for all of the compounds either. At the same time we haven't slowed down on enforcing. We have taken eight enforcement actions and in addition we provided technical assistance to a couple of dozen other enforcement actions by states and local governments around the country. So some of the communities and members of Congress have complained that our state is having to clean this up without EPA assistance. Actually no, we are providing the technical assistance so they know how to clean it up, we are providing the technical assistance so they know how to detect it. We are also doing some really innovative imaging - GIS - to figure out where the problems might be before they are detected. We know where the chemicals were produced. We know where they were manufactured. We also know to some certainty where they were used the most ... airports and firefighting ... so we are able to use our GIS mapping to overlay that with the water systems and aquifers to go out to the communities and test before people there realize it. We are using some innovative GIS technology to try and anticipate where the next problem may occur. We are really at the forefront of this. I just applaud our career staff, many of them...pulled all-nighters to get everything together.REUTERS: A lot of young people look at what your EPA is doing on emissions... and they look at your comments that climate is not the most important environmental problem...WHEELER: But it’s important and we are addressing it.REUTERS: But they point out water issues are part of the climate change problem, especially with drought.WHEELER: Oh sure, and I’ve said that, that climate impacts water. But the problems we are having with water have been around long before climate was an issue. We’ve had problems on water infrastructure, on waste in the oceans, and in drinking water for a hundred years.REUTERS: Do you worry that concern about a lack of leadership on climate change will spur a movement that will get Democrats elected next year?WHEELER: I can’t look at the politics of this, that’s just not my job. I can’t look at the politics and how this is going to impact elections. I have to address the environmental issues and problems as I see them and as they are presented to me by the people here at the agency. Yes, climate is an issue and we are working to address it, but I think water is a bigger issue and I talk about both and continue to. But there hasn’t been enough talk about water. The previous administration focused all their energies on one issue and that was climate change. You take a look at the website that we are accused of taking all the climate change information off the website. We didn’t. It's on there, it’s archived, but it’s on there. But that’s not the only environmental issue the world faces. I do fear that because so many people only talked about climate change, you’re right, there could very well be a new generation coming up saying that’s the only environmental issue. And it's not. I am going to have to be very careful in how I say this, because I don’t want to be misrepresented here. If I could go off on plastic straws for a second. Yes, it’s important to get all plastic out of the waste stream. Are plastic straws the be-all and end-all of this? No. By definition of the size of the straw and the amount of waste the straw makes up. My biggest concern is that in switching away from plastic straws that people are going to think that that problem is solved because they are no longer using a plastic straw. And that doesn’t solve the problem. We have the same issue on recycling. We have a huge recycling crisis right now, there are not enough products for recycled material to go into. We are just stockpiling recycled materials in warehouses. When I say "we" it’s not the EPA. Recycled products are being stockpiled in warehouses and loading docks around the country because China quit accepting the materials a few years ago. But most Americans think if I put my stuff in the recycling bin at the street corner the problem is solved. That doesn’t solve the problem. We hosted a recycling summit last fall, the first time the agency ever did that. We brought in the people from the entire value chain, from the manufacturers of the raw virgin materials through the manufacturers of the goods, to the packagers, to the people who collect the recycle materials, to the end users who take the materials and turn it into new products, and we gave them four charges to work on, and we’ve had continuing meetings with the groups since then and we are going to have another summit this fall. I have a real concern and this is part media, part politician, people talk about this issue du jour and that’s all people focus on and they don’t realize that that’s not solving all the problems that are out there.REUTERS: For your policies to be effective, you would need Trump to win.WHEELER: He’s going to. I’m looking at a five-and-a-half-year planning horizon at this point. I’m going to have five-and-a-half years to complete everything we are trying to do. And it's why I continue to talk about water and the importance about doing something for water.REUTERS: You guys told the autos on a call that you were targeting May or June to finalize rule. Is that still the case?WHEELER: What I said in the auto show last week was I'm targeting late spring, early summer. And I do that because seasons last lot longer than people realize. We hope to get it as quickly as possible. We're working with DOT. It's a complex rule-making. We hope to get it out as quickly as possible.REUTERS: On diesel, you've gotten aggressive on enforcing the diesel cases. Do you think that the auto community got the message that you're going to catch cheating? WHEELER: I hope so. Because we are. If there is cheating we are going to catch it. It's not just the automobile manufacturers, it's the after-market defeat devices. We've taken a lot of enforcement action to get defeat devices off the roads. It's not just setting standards, you have to enforce the laws, too. And we're doing much more enforcement than we're given credit for. REUTERS: How are you going to accommodate the oil states and corn states under the RFS (Renewable Fuel Standard)?WHEELER: RFS is a very important program. I worked on the legislation in 2004 and 2007. I was the staff director for both of those energy bills on the environment committee. This was an issue that went on to the environment committee. It was not in the jurisdiction of the energy committee, it's the jurisdiction of environment committee. But it's a very important program. The way it was set up, we're going to have rule-makings every year. We have to do the RVO (Renewable Volume Obligation) every year. We've done another thing on certainty, which the oil industry was very happy that we did, was to get the RVO out on time the last two years. It's the first time that's ever happened. Providing more certainty, more transparency helps the program and we're hoping to do that. We're being very transparent on what we're doing on the E15 and the RIN price mechanisms. So I think the fact that the RIN prices have been low for almost a year shows that program is working and there's transparency and the market is stabilized. It's when you have uncertainty, regulatory uncertainty, congressional uncertainty that can ripple through the RIN price markets. AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - In an unusual event, U.S. natural gas prices in West Texas have been trading in negative territory for more than two weeks, largely due to a lack of pipeline space, forcing some drillers to pay those with spare pipeline capacity to take unwanted gas.Spot prices at the Waha hub - where prices for gas in the Permian basin are set - fell to a record low of minus $4.28 per million British thermal units last week. Prices have been negative in the real-time or next-day markets since March 22. WHY IS THERE SO MUCH NATURAL GAS SUPPLY?The Permian is the nation's largest shale oil field, where production now exceeds more than 4 million barrels per day (bpd). But oil output also produces what is known as associated gas, seen by crude drillers as a waste product to be burned off or "flared" because there are not enough pipelines to remove it.Construction of new oil and gas pipelines in the Permian has not kept up with output, which has more than doubled over the past three years as the United States has risen to become the world's largest oil producer.But while oil can be stored in tanks and transported by truck or train, gas can only be transported by pipe, burned, or if special equipment is available, re-injected into the ground. Recently, compressor problems on a pipeline in New Mexico exacerbated the problem, as it closed off a key artery for the gas.(GRAPHIC: Texas natural gas prices turn negative: https://tmsnrt.rs/2HV1CJY) HOW MUCH GAS IS BEING FLARED?It depends on who you ask. Permian drillers flared a record 0.4 billion cubic feet per day (bcfd) in the third quarter of 2018 and are expected to flare at least 0.6 bcfd by mid-2019, according to Oslo-based energy data provider Rystad Energy.One billion cubic feet of gas is enough to fuel about 5 million U.S. homes for a day. Permian flaring came to 0.15 bcfd and 0.11 bcfd in 2017 and 2016, respectively, according to Texas Railroad Commission data interpreted by the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), an environmental group.EDF, however, believes drillers are burning more than the official figures. It used U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration satellite data to estimate that Permian drillers burned twice as much gas in 2017 - about 0.28 bcfd - than reported.Officials at the Texas Railroad Commission were not immediately available for comment.CAN DRILLERS BURN GAS FOR AS LONG AS THEY WANT?Texas drillers can burn gas for 45 days under an initial flaring permit and get extensions for up to six months. In Texas, Rystad said it "observed an increased tendency" where gas is flared on new wells for four to six months.Oil drillers that can no longer flare gas must ship it out or shut wells, but with crude prices at their highest levels in five months, drillers do not want to shut wells. DOES THAT MEAN EVERYONE WHO DRILLS IS PAYING SHIPPERS TO TAKE THEIR GAS AWAY?Anyone who ships gas on a pipe must pay the pipeline company for use of the space. Normally, gas producers or their customers pay this fee, but can then sell the gas at the end of the line for a profit. And shippers with long-term deals aren't affected.Those that are paying negative prices are the drillers who did not in the past commit to shipments already. Because they don't have the space on the pipeline, they are paying others who already have it to take that gas, effectively losing money despite producing the gas. AdvertisementSupported byPregnant women who worked two or more night shifts a week were at increased risk of miscarriage.By Nicholas BakalarPregnant women who work night shifts may have an increased risk for miscarriage.Researchers studied 22,744 pregnant Danish women, tracking their work schedules and hospital admissions for miscarriage using government databases.The study, in Occupational & Environmental Medicine, found that after eight weeks of pregnancy, women who had worked two or more night shifts during the previous week had a 32 percent increased risk of miscarriage compared with women who did not work nights. Working only one night shift a week did not significantly increase the risk.The study adjusted for maternal age, previous miscarriages, smoking, socioeconomic status, body mass index and other factors.The lead author, Dr. Luise Moelenberg Begtrup, a postdoctoral researcher at Bispebjerg Hospital in Copenhagen, said that this is an observational study that does not prove causality, and that it has to be replicated in other studies and in other populations. Most of the women in this study were health care workers.AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss an essay that called for “alarmism and catastrophic thinking.”To the Editor:Re “Time to Panic,” by David Wallace-Wells (Sunday Review, Feb. 17):As a co-editor of the 1989 Environmental Protection Agency Report to Congress on climate change effects on America and an author of three Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change reports and National Climate Assessments, I can assure you that these assessments have not played down the risks of climate change; there is little incentive to exclude scientific information on risk. Report authors focus on getting it right — making sure that the science supports our findings on potential risks (and benefits) from climate change. Our drafts are subject to extensive review. Report authors often disagreed about how to interpret the science, but I did not witness deliberate downplaying or burying of information on risks from climate change.Beyond this, the article’s call for “panic” is disturbing. We need a major effort to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. This requires boldness, but also rational analysis and leadership, not panic. Panic leads to irrationality, finger-pointing and often tragedy. Let’s keep our heads on.Joel B. SmithBoulder, Colo.To the Editor:A number of concerned psychiatrists from all over the country have recognized the points raised by David Wallace-Wells. We formed an organization, the Climate Psychiatry Alliance, explicitly focused on raising awareness of the mental health effects of climate disruption. We provide information and guidance for mental health professionals, health care organizations and systems, and public health entities for how best to address the wide range of mental health and public health concerns that derive from global warming. AdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Also this week, the latest on the government shutdown and Democrats’ plans to address climate change.By Lisa Friedman and Kendra Pierre-LouisWelcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By Lisa FriedmanHappy 2019, everyone! While many of us are back to work, parts of the federal government are still closed.The shutdown has not affected the Energy Department, since that agency’s funding has already been approved by Congress. But the Interior Department is struggling with mounting garbage and dirty bathrooms at national parks that are being kept open with minimal staffing. And the Environmental Protection Agency, which had been operating through Friday, has now furloughed thousands of workers.Just before the furloughs, the E.P.A. issued a major regulatory announcement: a plan to weaken standards that were designed to keep mercury pollution from coal-fired power plants out of the atmosphere. The proposal could also hamper the government’s ability to enact future pollution regulations.And what about the effects that the Trump administration’s policies are already having? I hope you made some time over the holidays to read this tremendous investigation by my colleagues Eric Lipton, Steve Eder and John Branch detailing the impacts on communities across the country as the administration eliminates dozens of Obama-era environmental rules.Meanwhile, Representative Nancy Pelosi, expected to be sworn in as speaker of the House this week, has appointed Kathy Castor, a Florida Democrat, to lead a new select committee on climate change. Ms. Castor said in a statement that Congress must reduce carbon pollution “by unleashing American ingenuity and creating clean energy jobs to power our future.”The committee has its critics, including incoming Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who has championed the idea of a “Green New Deal” that would, among other things, transition the country to 100 percent renewable energy and provide a universal jobs guarantee. In a tweet this week, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez commended the creation of the select committee but she said the panel would be weakened without subpoena power or a mandate to develop Green New Deal legislation. “There is still time to strengthen it,” she wrote.Notably, one solution that doesn’t seem to be up for serious consideration from the panel is a carbon tax. That could be because, as Justin Gillis asserts in this thought-provoking opinion column, it’s too politically toxic at the moment. On the other hand, the idea is getting new traction in some quarters, including from Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, who co-sponsored legislation at the end of 2018 with Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, to tax emissions and return the proceeds to American households as a dividend.Expect this issue to heat up in the next Congress.By Kendra Pierre-LouisA new year is a time to look back and to look forward. So, in that spirit of reflection, we reviewed our “One Thing You Can Do” series, looking for some New Year’s resolutions. These individual actions are not a substitute for broader systemic change, but they can still help you lower your personal contribution to global warming.New Year’s resolutions often mean doing more, like working out more or saving more for retirement. But one common thread we found was that if you want to lower your climate footprint, you can find some success in simply consuming less. And it will save you money, too.Hang onto your phoneTake, for example, your cellphone. Most of us hold onto them for only two years, but as we noted in November, producing a common smartphone released the equivalent of 178 pounds of carbon dioxide, about as much running a modern refrigerator for a year. That is one of the biggest reasons that the global carbon footprint of smartphones is projected to increase by 730 percent this decade.While some companies are making strides in reducing the environmental impact associated with producing our favorite mobile devices, hanging onto your phone for longer than two years is one way to make a difference.Buy less clothingAnother thing that’s helpful to hold onto? Your old clothes. The amount of textile waste in the United States increased by more than 800 percent from 1960 to 2015, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. (The population grew by about 78 percent during that period.)The process of creating all of that fabric has a significant environmental impact, including on the climate. One thing you can do is to buy less clothing; spend the new year shopping in your closet instead.Reduce food wasteAlso spend more time searching through your cupboard this year. January is a great time to use up the contents of your fridge and cabinets before food spoils and you have to throw it out.Globally, we throw out about a third of the food we buy, and if food waste were its own country it would be the third-largest greenhouse gas emitter behind China and the United States, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.Reducing food waste is a great way to cut your greenhouse gas emissions, and it can help reduce your grocery bill at the same time.But while you’re thinking about the best ways to cook up holiday leftovers, don’t do it in front of the refrigerator. Make sure to shut the fridge door when you’re not pulling things out — keeping the door shut is the most effective thing you can do to lower your fridge’s energy consumption. Eduardo Garcia, Henry Fountain and Julia Rosen contributed reporting.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBELGRADE — A young vulture who got stranded last year in Turkey more than 2,000 km from her nest flew home to Serbia on Friday - by plane.Dobrila, a young female griffon vulture, is part of a protected colony of around 70 pairs in western Serbia's Uvac Gorge.She was found injured and exhausted last year over 2,200 km (1,370 miles) away near the Turkish city of Diyarbakir, where authorities intervened to get her repatriated. She returned to Belgrade to a celebrity welcome, flown back on a Turkish Airlines commercial plane in a special crate and met on arrival by Serbian environmental protection minister Goran Trivan and Turkey's ambassador Tanju Bilgic. "I am happy our operation was a success ... Dobrila will now go back to Uvac and if she ever returns to Turkey we would be glad ... to take care of her," Bilgic told reporters.Dobrila ('The Good One' in Serbian) will now undergo health checks before be returned to the Uvac Gorge where she will be initially placed in a cage to adapt and learn how to feed on her own. Griffon vultures nest on steep cliffs and feed on animal carcasses. The young birds often start wandering until they reach maturity and choose a colony. AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersVIENNA — The U.N. atomic watchdog policing Iran's nuclear deal has inspected what Israel's prime minister called a "secret atomic warehouse" in Tehran, three diplomats familiar with the agency's work said.In a speech at the United Nations in September Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who vehemently opposes the deal, called on the International Atomic Energy Agency to visit the site immediately, saying it had housed 15 kg (33 lb) of unspecified radioactive material that had since been removed.Netanyahu argued the warehouse showed Tehran still sought to obtain nuclear weapons, despite its 2015 pact with world powers to curb its nuclear program in return for a loosening of sanctions.At the time the IAEA bristled at being told what to do, saying it does not take information presented to it at face value and sends inspectors "only when needed"."They've visited the site," one of the three diplomats said, speaking on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the issue publicly and details of inspections are confidential.One of the diplomats said the IAEA had been to the site more than once last month. The others said the agency had been there, without specifying when. The IAEA declined to comment."We have nothing to hide and any access given to the IAEA so far has been in the framework of laws and regulations and nothing beyond that," an Iranian official said.The Atomic Energy Organization of Iran declined to comment. Iran has said the site is a carpet-cleaning facility.Israel's Foreign Ministry declined to comment. Determining what nuclear materials if any were present at the site will depend on an analysis of environmental samples taken there, and the results will not be in until June, two of the diplomats said.Such environmental samples can detect telltale particles including highly enriched uranium even long after material has been removed. The IAEA has the power under the landmark 2015 deal to carry out so-called complementary access inspections in Iran, which are often conducted at short notice, wherever it needs to. The IAEA carried out 35 complementary access inspections in Iran in 2017, the latest year for which data is available, according to an annual report to member states that is itself confidential and which Reuters obtained. Diplomats familiar with the IAEA's work say such inspections are often carried out to clear up questions Iran has not fully answered or discrepancies in its declarations. 'NOTHING TO HIDE'The IAEA has repeatedly said Iran is holding up its end of the deal, which lifted international sanctions against Tehran in exchange for restrictions on its atomic activities that increased the time it would need to make a nuclear bomb if it chose to. Iran says its nuclear program is entirely peaceful.Quarterly IAEA reports say its inspectors have had access to all the places in Iran they have needed to visit, which IAEA chief Yukiya Amano repeated in a speech on Tuesday.At the same time, some diplomats who follow Iran closely say it has dragged its feet in dealing with the agency and some inspections have gone down to the wire."Full cooperation with the IAEA must be the norm, and Iran should not need a quarterly reminder of its importance," the United States, which has pulled out of the deal and now opposes it, said in a statement at last month's IAEA Board of Governors meeting, referring to another regular comment in IAEA reports.Pending the results of the sample analysis, several diplomats said the fact inspectors were granted access to the site showed the deal is holding for now, despite Washington re-imposing punishing sanctions that have targeted Iran's economy. AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSAO PAULO — Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro said on Monday that he told U.S. President Donald Trump that he wants the United States to take part in a joint development programme for the Brazilian Amazon region, though he did not provide details.In an interview with radio station Jovem Pan, Bolsonaro again criticized demarcations of indigenous reserves in the Amazon, home to the world's largest rainforest, saying that they hamper development of the region, home to about 25 million people. Bolsonaro said he may reverse any demarcation that he legally can."When I met Trump, I told him, among other things, that I want to open for them to explore the Amazon in a partnership," Bolsonaro said in the interview. He was in Washington for an official visit in March.The Brazilian president's view regarding the Amazon contrasts sharply with that of most environmental organizations in the country and abroad. Some green groups, such as Greenpeace, defend a total ban on any further deforestation in the region, including the share of land that could be legally cleared according to the Brazilian legislation.In the Amazon region, for example, a land owner is entitled to cut trees in 20 percent of the area, with an obligation to leave 80 percent of the vegetation intact.AdvertisementSupported bylensFor half a decade, Fred Ramos has photographed the longstanding political, social and environmental crises that are driving migration in the region. Photographs by Fred RamosText by David GonzalezFred Ramos’s photos of the forces compelling migrants to flee Central America are timeless. That’s not necessarily because of their composition, but rather because of their subject: the region’s longstanding political, social and environmental crises.For the last five years, Mr. Ramos has been photographing the root causes of migration in a region where the wealthy and politically connected openly flout laws that protect the environment or forbid corruption. Violence is used as a political force — or just to settle scores — while gangs hold sway over entire neighborhoods. Police officers in San Salvador find themselves under fire — literally — or in cahoots with organized crime. In the meantime, Mr. Ramos said, climate change and a lack of proper planning and agricultural infrastructure has left agricultural workers, known as campesinos, at the mercy of devastating droughts.While headlines focus on gangs and violence, Mr. Ramos — who works for the investigative site El Faro in El Salvador — knows that the reasons people are fleeing stretch far beyond any one cause.“The migrant crisis in Central America is so complicated,” Mr. Ramos said. “People leave for one reason, or all the reasons at once. But the international media deals with it in a simple manner, but it’s not just simply because some gang wants to kill them.”Traveling between Nicaragua and Guatemala over the years, Mr. Ramos has documented the human toll along the journey. Last October, he caught up with the migrant caravan in Guatemala City, and followed it into Mexico and north to Tijuana. He said the migrants who joined in the Guatemalan capital were fleeing a government in which corruption and impunity remain stubbornly entrenched.Although the Guatemalan Congress proposed granting amnesty for war crimes committed during the country’s 36-year civil war, in which more than 200,000 people were killed, an international outcry resulted in a postponement of the vote. Earlier this year, the government banned United Nations anti-corruption investigators from the country after they began looking into campaign contributions to President Jimmy Morales.“People said last year there were political motivations to the migration,” Mr. Ramos said. “But why were there so many people?” He added that the migrants he saw were different from those of previous decades.“There were a lot of women and children,” he said. “This was different from ‘regular’ migrants, who were usually single men.”In Honduras, ongoing political upheaval over the contested 2017 presidential election is only the latest challenge. On top of that, drought conditions over the years left farmers vulnerable, underscoring a lack of foresight on the part of the government. In the meantime, controversial mining concessions and other foreign concessions have had deleterious effects in the countryside.In one area, not far from where Berta Cáceres, an environmental activist, was killed, Mr. Ramos explored the effects of a dam that cut off access to a necessary source of water.“The campesinos lack education, climate change affects their harvest and they live in areas surrounded by gangs,” Mr. Ramos said. “That’s what I saw in the caravan.”Mr. Ramos found that while Nicaragua was spared the kind of gang activity seen elsewhere in the region, its political stalemate has fueled migration north. President Daniel Ortega — the former Sandinista leader whose revolution ousted Anastasio Somoza Debayle — has faced increased calls for his resignation over accusations of corruption.AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader sees President Trump’s nominee to lead the World Bank as following in the path of Scott Pruitt and Betsy DeVos.To the Editor:Re “Trump to Nominate David Malpass to Lead the World Bank” (nytimes.com, Feb. 4):The nomination of David Malpass to lead the World Bank, an institution whose very existence President Trump has repeatedly questioned, is another critical task he has handed to men and women whose stated views and history are inimical to those institutions’ missions.Whether it was the now departed Scott Pruitt at the Environmental Protection Agency (and his soon-to-be successor, Andrew Wheeler), or Betsy DeVos at the Education Department, Mr. Trump’s appointees, under the banner of “deregulation,” lean away from their agencies’ tasks. The state’s governor has sent an expensive high-speed rail project into disarray. If California can’t build it, who can?A portion of the California high-speed rail project, in Fresno, Calif. Gov. Gavin Newsom’s comments on the project this month raised questions about its prospects and the nation’s ability to complete big infrastructure plans.CreditCreditJim Wilson/The New York TimesSupported byBy Thomas Fuller, Jennifer Medina and Conor DoughertyFRESNO, Calif. — In a neighborhood littered with derelict warehouses, Miguel Arias pointed to a wide strip of dirt where California’s high-speed rail, one of America’s most ambitious and divisive infrastructure projects, has been taking shape.The son of Mexican farmworkers and a newly elected member to the City Council in this sprawling Central Valley city, Mr. Arias is hoping the train will deliver to Fresno the California dream that long ago bypassed the impoverished region.“We’ve been feeding the nation for decades and now we have a chance to feed ourselves,” Mr. Arias said. “This will be the first step into the middle class.”But California’s newly installed governor, Gavin Newsom, in his first major address to lawmakers this month, sent the project into disarray. The governor announced that the project, which was expected to connect the Central Valley to Silicon Valley, would be dramatically scaled back because of exorbitant costs.For now, the train would begin and end in the Central Valley, the governor said, making no mention of a connection to the coast, where most of the region’s people — and opportunities — reside.Mr. Newsom has since sought to walk back his remarks. But the portion of the rail line to Silicon Valley is still underfunded by at least $9 billion, and the governor’s comments have prompted deeper questions about America’s ability to think big and work together on complex public works projects, an area that seemed to have bipartisan support during the last presidential election before it was perennially deferred.If anything, the confusion and recriminations over high-speed rail seem to show that the nation’s partisan divide extends to infrastructure. Mr. Newsom’s speech led to a spirited Twitter exchange with President Trump, which then devolved into a much more serious — and for California a potentially financially calamitous — dispute over funding. The Trump administration has canceled or is trying to claw back as much as $3.5 billion in federal allocations from California.For Mr. Newsom, who has been governor less than two months, the rail episode was a searing introduction to the combative national political scene in the Trump era. The California media called the governor’s position incomprehensible, critics called the project a train to nowhere and a cartoon mockingly portrayed a high-speed train full of cows.“He pretty much killed the project with that speech,” said Ray LaHood, who served as transportation secretary in the Obama administration. “I was shocked. It was very shortsighted and no vision for rail.”Although California’s project has gotten the most attention, other states are considering high-speed rail projects. Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington has proposed an international high-speed line that would connect Vancouver to Seattle and Portland. Private investors are pushing for a train that would link Dallas to Houston. But no other project is further along than California’s.Mr. Newsom campaigned on a vow to tackle the state’s extreme inequality. But his high-speed rail position seemed, if anything, to highlight that California’s new divide is between east and west, more than north and south.Of any state in the union, California might seem best positioned to carry out big infrastructure projects: Flush with revenues, the state is controlled by a single political party, and its citizens regularly vote to raise their own taxes for a variety of projects and government services.“California built the world’s greatest water conveyance system, one of the great highway systems, a great university system,” said Dan Richard, who stepped down as chairman of the rail project’s board of directors on Tuesday. “When did we lose our confidence in our ability to do this stuff?”Even before Mr. Newsom’s comments, the project was troubled by repeated delays and cost overruns. The overall cost, estimated at around $45 billion when financing was approved by voters a decade ago, has now swelled to as much as $98 billion.California’s High-Speed Rail Authority, which is running the project, was established 23 years ago. During that time China has built 16,000 miles of high-speed rail.The first phase of California’s project, 119 miles through the Central Valley, will not be completed until 2022.Even if it does continue, the project is likely to face more legal challenges and opposition. Though surveys suggest it still has majority support, especially among younger voters, many in the state, particularly in Republican pockets, oppose it.“I think high-speed rail is dead in California in this form,” said Representative Kevin McCarthy, the Republican who represents Bakersfield. “The governors’s own words rightfully acknowledged, this costs too much and has taken take too long.”But the project also has some disinterested skeptics who say they are not convinced that it made economic sense in the first place.“I am a huge fan of infrastructure investment for many many reasons,” said Lawrence H. Summers, who served as Treasury secretary under President Bill Clinton. “But in the case of California high-speed rail, I am very skeptical as to whether the numbers work in terms of the benefits exceeding the cost.”The places where high-speed rail has been most successful, Mr. Summers notes, in Asia and Europe, are more densely populated and therefore more conducive. America is a largely suburban nation where most commuters drive to work alone. “America is the land of sprawl,” he said.The need for increased infrastructure investment has been one of America’s few remaining bipartisan issues, although left and right differ over whether public money or private money would finance it. President Barack Obama made reinvesting in roads, bridges and power plants a cornerstone of the 2009 economic stimulus package, and during the 2016 presidential campaign seemingly the only disagreement Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump had on infrastructure was about which of their administrations would spend more on it. The issue unites truckers and train buffs, unions and Wall Street, economists from the left and right.And yet, when it comes to spending the money — and actually getting things built — very little progress has been made. Following a brief spike during the recession, government investment has hovered around 3.3 percent of gross domestic product for the past few years, which is the lowest since the 1940s. In the meantime, roads, bridges and train tracks have gotten steadily older while proposals for new projects are delayed by political intransigence and legal delays.America’s short-horizon election cycles, especially in the House of Representatives, are not in sync with the time it takes to build such massive projects, making them politically vulnerable.In California, high-speed rail had been promoted by Republicans and Democrats alike for decades before the first shovel broke ground in 2015. It was Pete Wilson, a Republican governor, who in 1996 signed the legislation establishing the California High-Speed Rail Authority. Another Republican governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger, put the project’s financing on the ballot in 2008. Later, Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, became the project’s biggest booster and funder. In the meantime, polls showed Republican support for the project eroding.“There are so many obstacles to changing the status quo, and so many litigation opportunities at each stage, that we’re really looking at 20 years of consultants and lawyers and bureaucrats before these projects get started, and it’s almost impossible to maintain political and taxpayer support over that period,” said Jennifer Hernandez, a partner at Holland & Knight who leads the law firm’s West Coast environmental and land-use practice.Mr. Richard, who was chair of the High-Speed Rail Authority board for seven years, said the main hurdles for high-speed rail have been the complexities of land acquisition and a time-consuming slew of lawsuits.The wealthy San Francisco suburb of Atherton joined a walnut farmer and the Kings County Board of Supervisors in a lawsuit arguing that the project should be stopped because it would not meet a stipulation of the project’s financing: that the train would connect San Francisco to Los Angeles in 2 hours 40 minutes. In October a judge ruled that the project could proceed.A dozen lawsuits have targeted environmental aspects of the projects, including another suit by the town of Atherton that argued, among other things, that the rail authority had conducted an inadequate analysis of where the train should be elevated along the San Francisco peninsula. A court ruled that the analysis had been properly done.Mr. Richard said California’s strict environmental regulations have become a pretext for anyone who wanted to stop the project.“The environmental process has become about litigation protection,” he said. “You’re going to get sued so you’ve got to go out and basically do process upon process, study upon study to make sure that somebody cannot find some toehold for litigation.”Mr. Arias, the City Council member whose district is filled with homeless encampments, toxic landfills from old, shuttered factories and the stench of carcasses being rendered into tallow, sees high-speed rail as a social ladder for thousands of families, and a way for young people to connect with the thriving economy of the San Francisco Bay Area through jobs and education. It is also, he argues, an environmental salve that could reduce automobile traffic in a region of the state that suffers from serious air pollution.Fresno ranks second among big cities in the nation, after Detroit, for concentrated poverty — poor residents living in extremely poor neighborhoods — according to the Brookings Institution.“This is extremely personal,” Mr. Arias said as he drove his electric car through his district. “When people speak so critically of high-speed rail — calling it a boondoggle or whatever — they are not seeing the depressed neighborhoods every day that would benefit from it.”Chevron, Occidental Petroleum and BHP have invested in Carbon Engineering, a start-up developing technology to take carbon out of the atmosphere.Fuel made from carbon dioxide that Carbon Engineering removed from the air in a pilot project in Squamish, British Columbia.CreditCreditAlana Paterson for The New York TimesSupported byBy Clifford KraussSQUAMISH, British Columbia — Everyone knows an electric fan can make people feel cooler on a steamy day. But could fans moderate the planet’s rising temperatures?Some of the world’s biggest fossil fuel companies would like to find out.Chevron, Occidental Petroleum and the Australian mining giant BHP this year have invested in Carbon Engineering, a small Canadian company that claims to be on the verge of a breakthrough in solving a critical climate change puzzle: removing carbon already in the atmosphere.At its pilot project in Squamish, an old lumber town about 30 miles north of Vancouver, the company is using an enormous fan to suck large amounts of air into a scrubbing vessel designed to extract carbon dioxide. The gas can then be buried or converted into a clean-burning — though expensive — synthetic fuel.Investing in Carbon Engineering and other carbon-reduction initiatives is part of an emerging effort by fossil-fuel industries to remain relevant and profitable in a warming world. With electric cars and solar and wind power becoming increasingly affordable, executives acknowledge that business as usual could put their companies at risk.Already, fossil-fuel companies face a barrage of lawsuits, investor resolutions and regulations prompting them to invest more in clean energy. Advocacy groups are also pressing companies and lawmakers to keep oil and natural gas in the ground by challenging hydraulic fracturing, especially in Europe, and fighting pipelines meant to transport production from Canada’s oil sands.“This is about recognizing that climate change poses significant risks to all economic sectors,” Fiona Wild, BHP’s vice president for sustainability and climate change, said about the company’s $6 million investment in Carbon Engineering. “Climate change is no longer seen as a fringe issue. It’s a business risk that requires a business response.”Of course, big energy companies continue to drill for oil and gas and are pushing the Trump administration and other governments to open more territory to exploration.But some businesses have signaled that they are changing. A few companies, including Royal Dutch Shell and BP, are linking compensation to emissions reductions. Equinor, the Norwegian oil company, plans to increase spending on clean energy to 15 to 20 percent of its capital investment by 2030, up from 5 percent now.Carbon Engineering’s pilot on the rocky shores of Howe Sound is one of several carbon “direct-air-capture” ventures being attempted around the world. It is still a small effort, but its backers say it could play an important role in arresting climate change.Much of the work is done in an old industrial warehouse of corrugated metal adorned with faded graffiti, a structure once used by a company that made chemicals for the pulp industry. The temporary offices are decidedly makeshift, with the bathrooms entered from outside. No carbon is actually being pulled out of the atmosphere permanently because the company is still in testing mode.Chevron and Occidental, which have each taken seats on Carbon Engineering’s board, refused to disclose their investments. The company says it raised a total of $68 million in its most recent funding round to expand the pilot and develop its first commercial plant.Critics of fossil-fuel companies say such investments are so modest as to amount to little more than a public-relations stunt.“That’s chump change for these guys,” said Dan Becker, director of the Safe Climate Campaign, an environmental organization in Washington. “I don’t see any epiphanies.”But other experts disagree. “It could be greenwashing, but so what?” said Dieter Helm, a professor of energy policy at Oxford and the author of “Burn Out: The Endgame for Fossil Fuels.” “If money is being spent on research and development to develop ways to sequester carbon, that is a good thing.”Executives at Carbon Engineering said they welcomed investments by fossil-fuel companies not only for the money but also for their engineering and lobbying skills.“I have great big brothers now who are looking after me,” said Steve Oldham, Carbon Engineering’s chief executive. “Initially companies wanted to show that they were thinking of being green. Now you are seeing action.”The company said its commercial plants would have banks of large fans, 33 feet in diameter, to collect air and run it through a complex chemical process.Carbon Engineering, a small Canadian company, has developed methods to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere using “direct-air-capture” technology. It is one of several companies around the world working on the technique. The carbon dioxide may be reprocessed into fuel, or buried for disposal.Direct-air-capture technologyPURE CO2 GASTYPICALATMOSPHERICAIRMay be injected into the earth for disposal, or made into fuel.HYDROXIDESOLUTION1234WATERCO2-RICHCARBONATESOLUTIONCALCIUMCARBONATEPELLETSCALCIUMOXIDECALCIUMOXIDE SLURRYAIR WITH MOST OFTHE CO2 REMOVED1. Air intake2. Pellet reactor3. Calciner4. SlakerLarge fans draw in air, which is run through a mesh coated with a hydroxide solution. The hydroxide binds with the carbon dioxide to convert it into a carbonate solution. The carbonate solution is converted into small, dry pellets of calcium carbonate. The calcium carbonate pellets are heated until they break into their component parts — pure carbon dioxide gas and solid lime, or calcium oxide.Water is added to the calcium oxide, and the resulting slurry is returned to the pellet reactor, to regenerate the hydroxide solution used in the process.Direct-air-capture technologyPURE CO2 GASTYPICALATMOSPHERICAIRMay be injected into the earth for disposal, or made into fuel.HYDROXIDESOLUTION1234WATERCO2-RICHCARBONATESOLUTIONCALCIUMCARBONATEPELLETSCALCIUMOXIDECALCIUMOXIDE SLURRYAIR WITH MOST OFTHE CO2 REMOVED1. Air intake2. Pellet reactor3. Calciner4. SlakerThe carbonate solution is converted into small, dry pellets of calcium carbonate. The calcium carbonate pellets are heated until they break into their component parts — pure carbon dioxide gas and solid lime, or calcium oxide.Water is added to the calcium oxide, and the resulting slurry is returned to the pellet reactor, to regenerate the hydroxide solution used in the process.Large fans draw in air, which is run through a mesh coated with a hydroxide solution. The hydroxide binds with the carbon dioxide to convert it into a carbonate solution. Direct-air-capture technology1. Air intakeTYPICALATMOSPHERICAIRHYDROXIDESOLUTIONLarge fans draw in air, which is run through a mesh coated with a hydroxide solution. The hydroxide binds with the carbon dioxide to convert it into a carbonate solution. CO2-RICHCARBONATESOLUTIONAIR WITHMOST OFTHE CO2REMOVED2. Pellet reactorThe carbonate solution is converted into small, dry pellets of calcium carbonate. CALCIUMCARBONATEPELLETS3. CalcinerThe calcium carbonate pellets are heated until they break into their component parts — pure carbon dioxide gas and solid lime, or calcium oxide.CALCIUMOXIDESLURRYPURE CO2 GASMay be injected into the earth for disposal, or made into fuel.CALCIUMOXIDE4. SlakerWater is added to the calcium oxide, and the resulting slurry is returned to the pellet reactor, to regenerate the hydroxide solution used in the process.WATERBy The New York Times | Source: Carbon EngineeringThe air will be pushed through honeycombed plastic channels coated with potassium hydroxide that attaches itself to carbon dioxide. More chemicals will be added to produce tiny white pellets containing carbon. The pellets will then be heated to more than 1,600 degrees to form carbon dioxide gas.In one kind of plant the company hopes to build, the captured carbon dioxide could be injected underground, where it would be harmless unless some of it leaked back into the atmosphere. Mr. Oldham asserts that each such installation could eventually take as much carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere annually as 40 million trees.In another kind of facility, captured carbon dioxide would be combined with hydrogen extracted from water to make synthetic fuel that can be processed into gasoline, diesel or jet fuel. The energy needed to produce hydrogen would come from wind turbines and solar panels to limit emissions.The company’s synthetic fuel would be more expensive than conventional gasoline. Production costs could be about $4 a gallon, according to Carbon Engineering, compared with more than $2.70-a-gallon average retail price in the United States. But it could still be attractive to countries that spend tens of billions of dollars on crude imports, like India and Japan. Regulations taxing carbon could also make the fuel more attractive.The company says its synthetic fuels could be used in standard car, truck and plane engines, and would cause less air pollution than traditional fuels.Burning Carbon Engineering’s fuel would release carbon dioxide, but it would not increase greenhouse gases in the atmosphere by much or at all because the process would be recycling carbon that was already in the air, executives said.Early investors in Carbon Engineering include the Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and N. Murray Edwards, executive chairman of Canadian Natural Resources, a big producer of oil sands, a heavy oil that has a large carbon footprint.“Oil and gas companies have to wonder about their future,” said Michael Webber, an energy professor at the University of Texas at Austin. “They know that someday the energy mix will be different. So there are a lot of motivations for this investment.”Occidental wants to use the technology to find a sustainable supply of carbon dioxide that it can use to inject in its oil fields to increase pressure and extract more oil while also sequestering the carbon. The company is already the largest injector in the industry, but it now re-injects carbon that was found in natural underground deposits — providing little or no environmental benefit. By recycling carbon taken from the air, it hopes to bury as much carbon as its fuels emit, or even more. As an added benefit, there is a federal tax credit for sequestering carbon.“Every oil company should be striving to become carbon neutral,” said Vicki Hollub, Occidental’s chief executive. “Ultimately, we think we can be carbon negative. Addressing climate change is a turning point for the industry.”Chevron is seeking to meet a different immediate need. California requires refiners and other distributors to meet progressively declining targets of carbon in their fuels through 2030. Chevron, which is based in San Ramon, Calif., has two big refineries in the state that could use the synthetic fuel.“We have a need for low-carbon fuels,” said Barbara Burger, president of Chevron Technology Ventures. “The world needs transportation fuels and the public desires them, but they have an expectation that we lower the carbon content. And this is one of the options to do that.”But ramping up the ambitious ideas put forward by Carbon Engineering and other companies into projects large enough to have an important environmental impact will take considerable investment.Mr. Oldham said one of his carbon capture and sequestration plants would remove one million tons of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere annually, a small fraction of the more than 33 billion tons humanity emits in a year. The sequestration process would cost roughly $100 per ton, which in Occidental’s model could be offset in part by the increased oil production it would enable. The carbon could also be used to make cement and other building materials.But in case of an acute global climate emergency, governments would probably have to step in to hasten removal of carbon from the atmosphere. Mr. Oldham said the cost of capturing and sequestering all the carbon needed to stop climate change would require trillions of dollars.The company’s synthetic fuel could also struggle to find markets because of its cost.David Keith, an applied physicist at Harvard who founded Carbon Engineering and sits on its board, said the synthetic fuel would be most useful for trucks, ships and planes, while cars and other smaller vehicles would more likely be powered by batteries in the future.“There is no way we are beating oil from the ground in a head-to-head competition without regulation,” Mr. Keith said, referring to carbon taxes and other environmental policies. If there is sufficient political will to deeply cut emissions, he added, “I think you will see a large amount of this technology in the next decade or two.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Committees that check if employees get a good deal from their work pension should also consider how retirement schemes examine the impact of climate change on investments, Britain's markets watchdog proposed on Monday.Firms that have workplace pension schemes already have to set up an independent governance committee, or IGC, to check that members are not being ripped off by unfair transaction costs.The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is proposing to widen this remit to include a duty to report on environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues, consumer concerns, and how pension scheme providers select stocks and bonds to invest in, known as stewardship."We want to help make sure that these consumers do not lose money as a result of unsuitable investments, for example due to ESG risks including climate change," the FCA said in its consultation paper."And we want these consumers to benefit from good stewardship of their investments, to create sustainable value as well as benefiting the economy and society."The proposals are part of the watchdog's efforts to improve value for money in the investment sector by cracking down on unfair fees and charges.Separate new rules has meant automatic enrolment of about 10 million employees into pension schemes.But the FCA is worried that too many scheme members are not engaged enough in their pensions and it therefore want stronger IGCs to act on their behalf and improve competition among pension providers.IGCs can raise any concern with the boards of insurers and other providers of pensions, and can escalate concerns to the FCA if it feels they have not been dealt with properly.AdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Also this week: Updates on the ‘Green New Deal,’ and a climate science pioneer is honored.By Lisa Friedman, Kendra Pierre-Louis and Jillian MockWelcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By Lisa FriedmanHi, everyone. President Trump recently announced he would nominate David Bernhardt, a former oil lobbyist who is currently the acting secretary of the Interior Department, to formally lead the agency. This week, my colleague Coral Davenport published a big story looking at whether Mr. Bernhardt has used his position to benefit a former client.Ethics experts told Coral that Mr. Bernhardt’s efforts to roll back protections for a tiny fish called the delta smelt, a move that would help California farmers gain access to more water for irrigation, violated the Trump administration’s ethics pledge. That’s because the change would disproportionately help the former client, the Westlands Water District.Mr. Bernhardt told The Times that he had received verbal approval from an Interior Department ethics lawyer and that his actions did not violate ethics rules. His Senate confirmation hearing has not yet been scheduled, but look for lawmakers to further explore these issues then.There was a rare moment of bipartisan agreement on environmental issues this week when the Senate passed a land conservation bill to protect more than one million acres of wilderness. And the other big news on Capitol Hill is the sweeping “Green New Deal” climate change resolution by Democrats.A fact sheet that was briefly posted on the website of the resolution’s chief sponsor, Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, marred the measure’s rollout. But a growing number of states are trying to put similar plans into action, as Brad Plumer wrote.Another piece by Brad, published Wednesday morning, shows what some other countries are doing to reduce greenhouse gases — policies that the United States could use to cut its emissions in half by midcentury.Meanwhile, in the world of weather, it continues to be winter where we are. And Mr. Trump continues to confuse that, intentionally or not, with climate.If you’re a regular reader of this newsletter, you probably understand the difference between climate and weather, but you should still read this beautiful essay by one of our climate science experts, Kendra Pierre-Louis.My favorite line: “Weather tells us what to wear on a given day, while climate tells us what we should put in our closets. It’s why you don’t find many South Floridians with an extensive down coat collection.”Finally, be sure to read this piece by Andrew Keh, our colleague on the sports desk, about a beloved Dutch speedskating race on natural ice. Because the waterways in the Netherlands rarely freeze over consistently anymore, the race has been relocated to Austria.By Kendra Pierre-LouisIt was the summer of 1959 and Warren Washington, then a physics student at Oregon State University, was spending his summer working as a mathematician at the Stanford Research Institute.“They were working on some kind of atmospheric model,” he recalled, “and I said, ‘Gee, where can I go to get a Ph.D. in this field?’ ”He had become enamored with climate modeling, or using computers to simulate the global climate. That interest would propel him to earn a Ph.D. in meteorology from Pennsylvania State University, making Dr. Washington one of the first African-Americans to earn a doctorate in the discipline. With Akira Kasahara, he developed the first generation of global climate models, which are still the basis of the models scientists use today.This week, Dr. Washington, 82, was awarded the Tyler Prize for Environmental Achievement, which is administered by the University of Southern California and recognizes the achievements of environmental problem-solvers. Dr. Washington is splitting this year’s prize, which includes an award of $200,000, with the climatologist Michael E. Mann.I spoke with Dr. Washington in the days before the announcement. The following interview has been condensed and edited.What was the original interest in climate modeling?Our first getting into this was to see if we could simulate the present climate. We were just trying to make the model, make the winds blow in the right direction, precipitation in the right areas, and all the other things that you look for in trying to have a global climate model. How to use these models for climate change experiments came a little bit later.Even though we didn’t have a complete model, it was still a very useful tool even in the early days to give us some concern.How has climate modeling evolved?Oh, it’s great. Satellites have given us tremendous amounts of data to compare our models with, as well as ocean observations and sea-ice observations. We can measure so many things very carefully from space, and these measurements told us where our models needed to be improved.And there are more people doing the work. When we started we had a small group of, like, five or six people, and now when we have meetings we have hundreds of scientists who are involved in improving our models.A lot of people are worried that we’re running out of time to act on climate change. Do you wish we had started sooner?I think I’m a little pessimistic just because there’s this long time scale, the fact that when you burn a molecule of CO₂ it’s going to be in the atmosphere for almost a century.I spoke to George H.W. Bush’s cabinet in 1989. Cabinet officers started inviting me to come and have secret meetings with their staff away from the White House, saying that they wanted to do more to deal with this problem.If we would’ve started taking steps in 1989, it would’ve been a lot easier to deal with it. Because now we have to have to do a certain amount of catch-up.Part of the responsibility of scientists like myself is that they should offer advice to the government as well as speaking to the public directly as part of their responsibility. I’ve been a strong believer in being honest about what our science is telling us and even talking about our shortcomings. And these shortcomings shouldn’t deflect us from trying to find ways to cut down on emissions, because we do know what the root cause of these changes are in our system.By Jillian MockAnother Valentine’s Day is here, and we all know what that means: paper Cupids, heart-shaped boxes of chocolates and the classic bouquet of red roses. Lots and lots of roses. This year, Americans are expected to spend $1.9 billion on flowers alone, according to the National Retail Federation.But those beautiful blooms may come with an environmental price tag. Most of the fresh flowers sold in the United States are grown in Colombia or Ecuador, where there is plenty of sunshine and balmy weather. Flowers are so perishable that most are transported in refrigerated airplanes, an extremely carbon-intensive way to travel. What’s more, growing flowers can be a thirsty, pesticide-heavy endeavor, with the potential to contaminate or strain local water resources, said Kathleen Buckingham, a research manager in the forests program at the World Resources Institute.Flowers grown closer to home could have an even larger carbon footprint. In colder regions, even temperate California, the flower industry relies on energy-intensive greenhouses. While airfreight is costly in terms of carbon emissions, heating and cooling greenhouses is much more so. A 2007 report by a researcher at Cranfield University in England found that growing 12,000 roses in Europe produced about six times the carbon emissions as growing those flowers in Kenya and flying them to Europe.So what’s a romantic to do this Thursday? You could skip the flowers altogether, or look for responsibly grown blooms. Organizations like Fair Trade USA and the Rainforest Alliance examine flower farms and give their stamp of approval to farms that mitigate environmental impacts and ensure that workers, who are predominantly women, receive fair wages, health care and other benefits. Not all programs incorporate greenhouse gas emissions in their standards, however, and this remains a problem for the flower industry to tackle, Ms. Buckingham said.Your local florist may be able to help you learn more, as many track where their flowers come from, said Cheryl Denham, an owner of Arizona Family Florist in Phoenix.So, no matter how you decide to celebrate Valentine’s Day this year, try to show the planet a little love, too.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times.AdvertisementSupported byBy Coral DavenportWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — The Senate on Thursday voted to confirm David Bernhardt, a former lobbyist for the oil and agribusiness industries, as secretary of the interior. The confirmation of Mr. Bernhardt to his new post coincided with calls from more than a dozen Democrats and government watchdogs for formal investigations into his past conduct. Senators voted 56-41, largely along party lines, in favor of Mr. Bernhardt’s confirmation. Three Democrats — Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia, the senior Democrat on the Senate Energy Committee; Senator Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona; and Senator Martin Heinrich of New Mexico — supported Mr. Bernhardt, as did one independent, Senator Angus King of Maine. As interior secretary, Mr. Bernhardt, who has already played a central role in designing many of Mr. Trump’s policies for expanding drilling and mining, will now serve as the nation’s senior steward of its 500 million acres of public land and vast coastal waters.Mr. Bernhardt was the deputy to Mr. Trump’s first interior secretary, Ryan Zinke, who resigned this year amid allegations of ethical misconduct.At least eight senators, all Democrats, and four government ethics watchdog groups have requested that the Interior Department’s inspector general open formal investigations into various aspects of Mr. Bernhardt’s conduct. Separately, at least one Democratic senator and one government watchdog group have requested that the United States attorney’s office investigate whether Mr. Bernhardt may have committed civil or criminal violations before he joined the Trump administration.Mr. Bernhardt has testified to Congress that he has made an effort to be ethical in all his work. “I believe public trust is a public responsibility, and maintaining ethical culture is critical,” he said at his Senate confirmation hearing last month. He also said that he has sought to strengthen the culture of ethics at the Interior Department, which became notorious for corruption scandals during the George W. Bush administration, when the deputy secretary of the interior, J. Steven Griles, was sentenced to prison for lying to a Senate committee about his ties to the lobbyist Jack Abramoff. At that time, Mr. Bernhardt was the Interior Department’s solicitor.“I know how important and how devastating it is when folks at the top act in an unethical manner,” he said.The questions about Mr. Bernhardt’s conduct do not appear to have swayed Republican support for Mr. Trump’s nominee. Republican leaders have praised Mr. Bernhardt’s experience in the Bush administration. “Mr. Bernhardt has significant private practice experience as well as a past record of service at the Department,” said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, in a statement. “Along the way, he’s earned the respect of those who rely on the public lands the Department of the Interior is charged to oversee, from Native American leaders to sportsmen’s groups. He’s been praised as a ‘proven leader’ who ‘acts with integrity’ and has ‘the right approach and skill set.’”Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said: “It still amazes me. Donald Trump campaigns on cleaning up the swamp and he does exactly the opposite when in office. An oil and gas lobbyist as head of the Department of Interior? My God. That’s an example of the swampiness of Washington if there ever was one. And when are Donald Trump’s supporters going to understand this?”Environmental groups who opposed Mr. Bernhardt’s confirmation were not surprised that Senator Manchinn — whose state, West Virigina, is rich in coal and who often votes with Republicans on energy and environmental policy matters — supported Mr. Bernhardt. But many environmentalists expressed anger that Senator Heinrich, who has presented himself as an environmental champion, particularly on issues of climate change, backed the confirmation of a former oil lobbyist to oversee public lands. This week, the Western Values Project, a conservation advocacy organization, ran a television ad campaign in New Mexico urging Senator Heinrich to vote against Mr. Bernhardt. Senator Heinrich said that, as a lawmaker from a state where roughly one-third of the land is owned and operated by the Interior Department, it was important to him to have a permanent, confirmed secretary at the head of the agency, even if the person in that role was not his first choice.“I need to be able to pick up the phone and talk to the secretary of interior on a regular basis. I’m not going to be able to get the interior secretary I wanted. We didn’t win in 2016,” he said, referring to the presidential race. “But in New Mexico, I’m going to put my state and protection of public lands in my state first.”The National Ocean Industries Association, a lobbying organization for offshore drilling companies, including many of Mr. Bernhardt’s former clients, cheered his confirmation. “His unparalleled depth of experience at the department and knowledge of energy and conservation policies will serve our nation’s public lands and resources well,” said the group’s president, Randall Luthi. Offhore oil companies have been working closely with Mr. Bernhardt over the past several months as he develops the administration’s plan to open up most United States coastal waters to offshore drilling. A draft of that plan was made public last year, and Mr. Bernhardt is expected to put forth a final plan later this year. Government watchdog groups criticized the ties between Mr. Bernhardt and his former clients. “We know with absolute certainty that Bernhardt will be a horrible secretary, because he had been a catastrophic deputy secretary — eager to do the bidding of his former clients, without regard to the impact on the public lands, endangered species or public health,” said Robert Weissman, president of Public Citizen, which has filed a complaint against Mr. Bernhardt with the Interior Department’s ethics office. In addition, ethics specialists and Democratic lawmakers have requested that the Interior Department’s inspector general explore the findings of a New York Times investigation in February that revealed that Mr. Bernhardt, while in office, had personally directed a policy to weaken endangered species protections on a California fish, a change that could directly benefit one of his former lobbying clients, the Westlands Water District.They have also sought an investigation based on a separate Times report detailing previously undisclosed emails indicating that, in the months before he was nominated to office, Mr. Bernhardt continued to lobby for the Westlands Water District even after he filed official papers saying that he had ended his lobbying activities. Federal law requires lobbyists to disclose their activities. Lawmakers have also sought a formal inquiry into the findings of a report in the Times in March showing that Mr. Bernhardt had intervened to block the release of a scientific report revealing the threat presented by three widely used pesticides to hundreds of endangered species, including the kit fox and the seaside sparrow.The inspector general’s office has not confirmed that any investigations of Mr. Bernhardt are underway.For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.An earlier version of this article misstated the number of Democrats who supported Mr. Bernhardt. It was three, not two. (The earlier version omitted Senator Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona.)AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCOLOGNE, Germany — Bayer's chief executive on Thursday acknowledged the German maker of pharmaceuticals and crop chemicals was facing massive challenges from a wave of lawsuits over an alleged carcinogenic effect of its Roundup weedkiller."We have lost two cases in lower courts. That is why the company is massively affected. You see it in our share price," CEO Werner Baumann said in a panel discussion at an academic business event in Cologne."You see it selectively, mainly here in Germany and in France - less so in the USA - in our reputational scores," he added.Bayer has seen about 30 billion euros ($34 billion) wiped off its market value since August, when a U.S. jury found Bayer liable because Monsanto, acquired by Bayer for $63 billion last year, had not warned of weedkiller Roundup's alleged cancer risks. It suffered a similar courtroom defeat last month and more than 10,000 cases are pending."There's lots of politicking, campaigning and propaganda that goes entirely against the current regulatory status of our products. That has prompted U.S. lawyers to sue for damages - a big industry in the USA - following an outlier assessment of the potential risk by a subordinate organization," Baumann added.The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the European Chemicals Agency and other regulators across the globe have found that glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup, is not likely carcinogenic to humans.However, the World Health Organization's cancer arm in 2015 reached a different conclusion, classifying glyphosate as "probably carcinogenic to humans".AdvertisementSupported byBy Manuela Andreoni and Shasta DarlingtonBRUMADINHO, Brazil — The Brazilian police on Tuesday arrested five people, including three employees of the giant mining company Vale, as part of an investigation into a dam rupture that left at least 84 dead and 276 missing.The dam, filled with mining waste and sludge, burst on Friday afternoon, sending a tidal wave of mud crashing down on homes in the town of Brumadinho in southeastern Brazil. The torrent also struck Vale administrative buildings, including the company cafeteria.The other two people arrested were engineers working for the Brazilian subsidiary of the German industrial testing company TÜV Süd, which conducted two inspections of the Brumadinho dam last year, the most recent in September, according to both Vale and TÜV Süd. The subsidiary carried out an inspection of the dam’s safety in September, it said, though it refused to comment further, citing the continuing investigation.Brazilian federal and state prosecutors said in a  news release that the five arrests, as well as seven search warrants that were executed, were “aimed at investigating criminal responsibility for the rupture.” The arrests were focused on individuals who had been involved in the most recent safety and environmental survey, which concluded that the dam was “stable.”According to the arrest warrant, the five men will be held for an initial 30 days and could be charged with participating in homicide, false representation and environmental crimes. It called for the seizure of documents and mobile phones.The Vale employees arrested were directly involved in and responsible for the mining enterprise and its licensing, according to prosecutors. The other two people arrested had “attested to the stability of the dam on a recent date.”In Brazil, independent auditors verify the safety of dams through regular inspections and analysis of written records. But according to experts, the certification process is flawed because the mining companies select and pay the auditor — creating a possible conflict of interest — and provide all of the documentation that inspectors base their analyses on.The arrest warrant did not cite specific evidence beyond the stability certification and the dam collapse itself, saying it wasn’t believable that such large dams “managed by one of the biggest mining companies in the world, suddenly ruptured without giving any indication of vulnerability.”At a news conference late Tuesday, Fabio Schvartsman, the chief executive of Vale, said the company had decided to close the remaining 10 dams built in the same manner as the Brumadinho dam, and would stop operations at all of the mine complexes where they were located until they had been fully decommissioned. Such “upstream” dams, which use mining waste and tailings as banks for the dam, are cheaper than dams built with earth and rocks, but considered less safe.“This is an unprecedented effort by a mining company,” Mr. Schvartsman said, to provide “an exacting response that corresponds to the enormous tragedy that we had in Brumadinho. He added that the decommissioning process could take between one and three years.In a statement posted to Twitter, Vale said that it was fully cooperating with the authorities: “Vale will continue to support the investigations in order to determine the facts, in addition to the unconditional support to the families #Brumadinho.”Vale faces mounting anger and public pressure as the death toll rises and rescue workers acknowledge that efforts to dig through the sludge are focused more on finding bodies. The company also jointly owned another upstream dam 75 miles away, near the town of Mariana, that burst three years ago, killing 19 people and unleashing one of the worst environmental disasters in Brazilian history.In Brumadinho, about 100 people gathered in the local cemetery on Tuesday morning to mourn the death of Duane Moreira, 33, who was operating a train in the mining compound when the dam broke. His wife, two sisters and mother wept over his closed coffin. Juarez Oliveira, a local priest, called Mr. Moreira’s death a murder.“We need to resuscitate hope,” he said. “There is a lot of hate, but we need to find oxygen.”Luciano Siani, the chief financial officer of Vale, announced that the company would give the families of those killed 100,000 reais each, or around $26,800. Judges have ordered the company to set aside 11 billion reais, about $2.9 billion, to pay damages caused by the dam collapse.The announcements have done little to console residents of Brumadinho. Mr. Moreira’s mother, Rosângela de Mattos, is not only mourning her son but is also unsure of the fate of her sister, who was working at the mining complex on Friday. She has not been heard from since the dam collapsed.“They can sell the whole company and give us the money,” Ms. de Mattos said. “But nothing will pay for the lives of my son and my sister.”Manuela Andreoni reported from Brumadinho, Brazil, and Shasta Darlington from São Paulo. Melissa Eddy contributed reporting from Berlin.AdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Also this week: How much hot water are you in?By John Schwartz and Tik RootWelcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By John SchwartzHi, everybody! Things have been heating up around here, especially in the ocean. A new study suggests the oceans have been warming more rapidly than scientists previously thought. Zeke Hausfather, an author of the study, told our colleague Kendra Pierre-Louis that 2018 would turn out to be “the warmest year on record for the Earth’s oceans, as 2017 was the warmest year, and 2016 was the warmest year.”The news about the oceans makes you wonder how high 2018 will rank among the hottest years in recorded history. We’d love to tell you, but we can’t: The government shutdown has stalled that data, and a lot of other important science besides. Kendra has that story, too.That’s just one of the effects of the shutdown. Coral Davenport wrote about furloughed pollution inspectors at the Environmental Protection Agency who would normally be checking up on chemical factories, power plants, oil refineries, water treatment plants and thousands of other industrial sites for pollution violations.Still, not everything is idle for the Trump administration. It is bringing back at least 40 federal employees to work on plans to sell oil and gas drilling leases off the United States coastline. And the hearing over the nomination of Andrew Wheeler to head the Environmental Protection Agency went on as scheduled.In California, Pacific Gas and Electric will seek bankruptcy protection over the billions of dollars in liability it faces from two years of deadly wildfires. Climate change is a factor, helping to make wildfires more numerous and more destructive — and making the utility “one of the first major financial casualties from climate change.”And, if all of that is the sort of news that might have you reaching for a comforting cup of coffee, you guessed it: Climate change (and deforestation) is threatening many wild species of coffee. Somini Sengupta tells us that the loss of diversity means we could be losing options to adapt our morning cup to a changing world.By John SchwartzAs the impasse continues over President Trump’s demand for a border wall, Mr. Trump and his allies have floated the idea of his declaring a national emergency that they say might allow him to build it without congressional approval.Mr. Trump has already pulled back somewhat from his earlier threats of an emergency declaration. But the idea alone has caused consternation, and not just among Democrats. Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, said last week that the precedent of declaring an emergency to build the wall worried him. “We have to be careful about endorsing broad uses of executive power,” he said. “Tomorrow the national emergency might be climate change.“Hmm,” we thought here at Team Climate. Could a future president who accepts the seriousness of the climate threat declare an emergency to get things done? How would that work?There are 136 statutory provisions that grant powers to the president under an emergency declaration, according to a recent report from the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University. These laws are very specific in their effects, said Elizabeth Goitein, a co-director of the center’s Liberty and National Security Program.Whether the laws would allow Mr. Trump to build a wall is questionable; whether they would allow action on climate change is even more so.Some of the laws do allow the president to act on environmental safeguards and energy production, but “they all cut the other way,” Ms. Goitein said. These are laws that allow the president to temporarily suspend environmental protections, for example, in the case of a national emergency that requires a quick surge in energy production. So, those laws could not be used to tighten environmental protections or to reduce energy production.“There are no emergency provisions to protect the Earth,” Ms. Goitein said.What’s more, the meaning of an emergency when invoking these powers is rooted in the idea of things that happen suddenly, without the kind of warning that gives Congress time to act — and one thing that isn’t sudden is knowledge about climate change.The intention of the provisions, Ms. Goitein said, is not to “get around the law” or to perform an end run around a Congress that disagrees with the president’s wishes.“We are in a climate emergency,” said Michael Burger, executive director of the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University. “But just because you call something an emergency doesn’t mean that it fits under the president’s statutory authority.”By Tik RootWhen you turn on the shower, chances are that hot water (eventually) comes out. While we may wonder why it takes so long for the water to warm, that’s about as far as our minds probably wander on the subject. But here’s something to remember: Keeping water hot is one of the most energy-intensive components of our daily lives.According to the Energy Department, water heating accounts for about 18 percent of a home’s energy consumption. That’s usually second only to home heating (which we covered last month) and cooling. But it often goes overlooked, said Gary Klein, a consultant on hot water efficiency.For energy-conscious homeowners who have already gone through a standard checklist, “water heating is going to be the biggest one thing that’s left,” Mr. Klein said. “It’s like the next gold mine to go mining in.”There are a number of places to start, some easier than others.If you’re building a new home or doing major renovations, Mr. Klein suggests a design where the taps and hot water heater are as close to one another as possible. Another consideration is whether to go with a traditional hot water tank or a tankless system, which is more expensive to install but uses less energy because it heats water only on demand.High-efficiency appliances also go a long way, Mr. Klein said, mainly because they use less water, thus reducing the need to heat it in the first place.But there are also simple things that most anyone can do. Switching to low-flow fixtures, for example, reduces the demand for hot water, leading to significant savings.Another place to look is on the water heater itself, where the temperature is almost always adjustable. If your water is coming out of the tap scalding, the temperature is probably set too high, so go ahead and try inching it down until you feel comfortable. The Energy Department recommends 120 degrees.Mr. Klein recommends looking into other modifications as well. Demand-activated pumps, for example, can help bring your water up to temperature without wasting water down the drain. Pressure-compensating aerators better regulate the flow from fixtures and can be quite inexpensive.The technology, he said, is much better than it used to be. “If you tried this stuff some years ago,” he said, “it’s time to try it again.”Mr. Klein also recommends insulating your hot water pipes. Doing so keeps your unused hot water warmer for longer, meaning less energy is needed to heat it back up.“Poorly insulated pipes,” Mr. Klein said, “is sort of like having screen doors in submarines.”We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.AdvertisementSupported byOn the RunwayThey won’t be leaving “bros out in the cold,” says Patagonia. Here’s how the company is thinking about its famous banker fleeces. By Vanessa FriedmanThe great fleece freak-out of 2019 — the days of crazed excitement around the idea that Patagonia, the outdoor clothing company, was sticking it to Wall Street and Silicon Valley by refusing to make any more of the branded fleece vests that had become a banker signifier — began, as many confused news cycles do, with a tweet.Binna Kim, an executive with a financial public relations firm, announced: “News — @Patagonia just told us they are no longer doing branded vests for financial services companies.” Instead, it appeared the brand would work only with B corporations (companies certified for environmental and social standards and performance) and companies that were members of the organization One Percent For the Planet — though most readers ignored that part and concluded, as one response went, “This news is the black swan event that will cause the next crisis.”There were rumors it was an April Fool’s joke, but Ms. Kim shot that down. Before you could say “mergers and acquisitions,” gleeful reports were making their way around the web, Patagonia cast in the role of the tssk-ing parent issuing judgments on the morally corrupt money-grubbers and privacy-ignorers.The general feeling being: O.K., so bankers weren’t prosecuted way back when. And they seem to be wiggling out of consequences now (so does the tech crowd, even if they are in the hot seat). But at least they are being prosecuted in the court of fashion!Could it really be true? As it turns out, not entirely.According to Corley Kenna, senior director of global communications at Patagonia: “Several customers and some members of the press have asked us whether we’ve changed our policy regarding group sales — and whether we’re leaving ‘bros out in the cold.’ Bros, their sisters, mothers and fathers need not go cold. We continue to sell to, and welcome the business of, the B-to-B companies and nonprofits who have been short- or long-term loyal customers — including those who order co-branded vests or other items that feature the group’s logo as well as ours.”So the change will affect only new customers — and, going forward, the program will (in Patagonia’s mind at least) have more to do with supporting companies that share the brand’s value system than discriminating against companies that don’t.That does not, however, mean the whole kerfuffle isn’t significant. It’s just that what the change really reveals isn’t actually some nefarious scheme on Patagonia’s part, but rather how challenged the image of the fintech world and its members remains in the public mind. They’re still the villains of our particular cultural story, and whenever they seem to be experiencing some kind of comeuppance, even one as minor as a change in their go-to garment, it is greeted with joy.Here’s how the saga happened, and what’s actually going on.As is clear to anyone who watches “Billions” or “Silicon Valley,” is fascinated by the “summer camp for billionaires” known as Allen & Co.’s Sun Valley conference, or knows anyone who works for a private equity firm, hedge fund or venture capital firm, company-branded fleece vests have been the baseball hats of the twenty-teens for the fintech sector.As Casual Friday crept into the workweek, and the shadow banking world attempted to distinguish itself from the old establishment banking world, the basic garment of climber culture became the new jacket: cooler, tougher, a visual statement of being able to get it done. The style got at least one Instagram handle — @midtownuniform — and a page featuring pictures of banker bros in fleece vests.Executives gave them to employees, to clients and handed them out on pretty much any occasion. And though many companies, including The North Face, make fleece vests, the Patagonia fleeces quickly became, as Jeffrey Leeds, co-founder of Leeds Equity Partners (and a longtime fleece-wearer), said, “the Tiffany blue box” of the culture: an immediately recognizable visual sign of elite status. Part of this can be attributed to the co-branding — the Patagonia name on one side and a company name on the other.Patagonia became so linked to the financial sector uniform that one website poked fun at the whole thing by offering a “VC starter kit” for $499. “Nothing says SF VC casual like a Patagonia Better Sweater Vest paired with gray Allbirds runners. You’ll fit right into Demo Day,” the promo read. (Proceeds go to a nonprofit.)However, late last year Patagonia decided to change its mission statement from the relatively lengthy “Build the best product, cause no unnecessary harm, use business to inspire and implement solutions to the environmental crisis” to the more urgent and direct “We’re in business to save our home planet.”As part of that change, each brand sector started to look at policies to see if they aligned with the new mission statement. Patagonia’s Corporate Sales Program, or B-to-B section, which the company said is a relatively small but growing part of the business, began to think it might be making a mistake by insisting on co-branded products. (The co-branding idea was an effort to stymie resales.) That policy put the company in the position of having its name paired with firms with different philosophical approaches to business, which in turn opened Patagonia to charges of hypocrisy. The group decided it would make more sense for the program to support brands aligned with its mission.Patagonia has a history of being careful about which sectors it worked with: It has long avoided partnering with oil and gas and metals and mining, for example. The decision to be choosier about its fleece partners is, in many ways, entirely in line with most of the company’s recent corporate actions, from campaigning against the Trump administration’s efforts to reduce the acreage of protected lands to giving its $10 million tax rebate last year to nonprofits.In any case, the brand was in the midst of thinking through the implications of what all this meant, fleece-wise (what if a mining company joined One Percent For The Planet, for example?), when the news leaked, and Patagonia lost control of the message. The company had not, it appeared, anticipated the latent desire to engage in fintech mockery that the deliberations would awaken.Yet pointedly, as all this was going on, Yvon Chouinard, Patagonia’s founder, was giving a speech at the One Percent For the Planet summit in Portland, Ore. — the brand has donated more than $100 million to the organization thus far — and saying, “Life’s a lot easier if you break the rules instead of trying to conform to them. If you invent your own game, you can always be a winner.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa FriedmanWASHINGTON — The Senate blocked consideration of the Green New Deal on Tuesday, ending a Republican effort to hitch Democratic presidential candidates to the climate plan and paint Democrats as out-of-touch socialists and fantasists.The resolution that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, put to a test vote called on the federal government to rapidly eliminate planet-warming fossil fuel emissions; accelerate the deployment of wind, solar and other zero-carbon energy sources; and create a national jobs program.But the procedural motion simply to take up the Green New Deal failed to get a single vote. Democrats, including those who were sponsors of the resolution, denounced the move as a sham intended to divide their party and provide Republicans with election-season talking points. They overwhelmingly voted “present” on the motion, and it failed, 0 to 57.Three Democratic senators — Joe Manchin III, who represents coal-heavy West Virginia; Doug Jones of Alabama; and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona — joined Republicans voting no, as did Senator Angus King, an independent from Maine.But the hours of discussion that preceded the desultory procedural vote marked the most extensive examination of climate change on the Senate floor in years. The fight also took on larger dimensions as a proxy for the 2020 presidential battle, with Republicans charging that liberals intend to raise energy costs and devastate middle-class livelihoods, and Democrats blasting their counterparts for climate denial and inaction on an issue most Americans agree is serious.The day of drama included Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, exhibiting a poster of former President Ronald Reagan astride a dinosaur in an effort to treat the Green New Deal with “the seriousness it deserves.” Mr. McConnell dismissed the plan as a “science-fiction novel.” Outside the Senate, environmental activists chanted: “What do we want? A Green New Deal. When do we want it? Now!” even as they clarified that they did not actually want the Senate to pass this particular Green New Deal resolution at this precise moment.“To ordinary people, climate change is not politics. It’s life and death,” said Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts and a sponsor of the Senate version of the Green New Deal. Mr. Markey accused Republicans of trying to “sabotage” efforts to curb greenhouse gas emissions and predicted that “they will pay a price at the ballot box in 2020.”Still, the maneuvering ultimately allowed both parties to declare political victory.Democrats said they intended to move forward on a number of fronts. In the House, a senior Democratic leadership aide said lawmakers would introduce sweeping legislation this week to require the Trump administration to stay in the Paris Agreement on climate change and create a plan for meeting the United States’ commitment to the global climate deal.In the Senate, Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, and Brian Schatz of Hawaii will announce a new special committee on climate change. Democrats are also expected to push to prioritize climate change in coming legislation on infrastructure and a deal to raise spending caps.Environmental activists said they believed the Republican strategy to ridicule, campaign on and raise money off the Green New Deal had backfired, with even Mr. McConnell acknowledging at a news conference on Tuesday that climate change was real and caused by human activity.“Mitch McConnell bet big that today’s vote would fracture the Democratic caucus,” said Varshini Prakash, the executive director of the Sunrise Movement, a youth movement for climate action. “Today he bet wrong,” she added.Shortly after the vote, however, Republicans including Mr. McConnell and Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming were scheduled to appear at a $500-a-plate fund-raiser for Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa at the National Mining Association, the chief lobbying group for the coal industry.Republicans meanwhile boasted that they had exposed a plan so extreme that even Democrats shied away from it.“Democrats are trying to duck, dodge and distance themselves from a vote on their own Green New Deal,” Mr. Barrasso said. “Every Democrat senator running for president supported it. Now when given the chance to actually go on the record, Democrats are desperate to avoid it.”All six presidential candidates in the Senate — Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California, Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts — had been sponsors of the Green New Deal.Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert D. McFaddenMarian Sulzberger Heiskell, a New York civic leader and philanthropist who led campaigns to create the Gateway National Recreation Area and restore the grandeur of theaters on 42nd Street, and who was a member of the family that controls The New York Times, died Thursday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 100.Her death was announced by her daughter Susan Dryfoos.As the granddaughter, daughter, wife, sister, aunt and great-aunt of six successive publishers of The Times, and as the wife of Andrew Heiskell, the chairman of Time Inc., Mrs. Heiskell moved in the circles that dominated New York’s philanthropic and social world. And that might have led to a whirling life of cotillions and charity balls.But she discovered as a young woman — “much to my horror,” as she put it — that she was good at fund-raising and getting things done, and she soon found herself in demand on the civic circuit. Mayor Robert F. Wagner named her to a “Keep New York City Clean” campaign, and before long her first husband, Orvil E. Dryfoos, the publisher of The Times, was picking up scraps of paper on his morning walks.Her work caught the eye of the Kennedy administration, and she was named to its Outdoor Recreation Resources Review Commission — a natural fit because she loved fishing, canoeing and hiking. That led Interior Secretary Stewart L. Udall to name her to a seat on the National Park System Advisory Board.From 1970 to 1992, Mrs. Heiskell held a series of mayoral appointments as the chairwoman or co-chairwoman of the Council on the Environment of New York City, a privately funded group that she founded with Mayor John V. Lindsay. It created scores of community-run parks, playgrounds and gardens, as well as the city’s first modern-era farmers’ markets. It also organized environmental education programs in schools and was an early advocate of paper recycling.Mrs. Heiskell became a leader in the campaign that prompted Congress in 1972 to create the Gateway National Recreation Area, a 26,000-acre park of beaches and wildlife refuges on scattered sites around the entrance to the New York-New Jersey harbor. The Interior Department, honoring her in 1980, said she had been “responsible for the acceptance of the urban recreation concept within the National Park Service.” At her death she was the chairwoman of the National Parks of New York Harbor Conservancy.But her most striking contribution to the cityscape was her work on the restoration of the theaters along 42nd Street just west of Times Square, which dated from the early 20th century. These once-grand theaters, where Flo Ziegfeld and George M. Cohan had dazzled the top-hatted limousine trade, had degenerated into a seedy lineup of triple-X and martial-arts movie houses, a shadow of Broadway’s fabled Great White Way.As chairwoman of New 42nd Street Inc., a nonprofit organization created by the city and the state, Mrs. Heiskell began in 1990 with a mandate to revive the grandeur of the New Amsterdam, the Victory and other theaters with millions of dollars provided by the developers of office towers in Times Square, pledges made in exchange for big tax breaks. As the projects went on, they began to generate income — rents, ticket sales, fund-raisers, grants from the city and private foundations — that drove more projects to fruition.A decade after it began, the work was substantially done, including a new theater for children at the renamed New Victory and a 10-story building housing rehearsal studios and offices for nonprofit cultural organizations. Mrs. Heiskell and Cora Cahan, the president of New 42nd Street, said in a letter to The Times that visionary public officials and preservationists deserved the credit.“Although it was anticipated that the planned office buildings at the four crossroads sites would spur the redevelopment of 42nd Street, it turned out that the abandoned theaters led the parade,” they wrote. “The lineup of legitimate theaters, built at the turn of the century, made 42nd Street the most famous block in the world. Once again the theaters light the way.”Marian Effie Sulzberger was born on Dec. 31, 1918, in Manhattan, the first of four children of Arthur Hays  and Iphigene (Ochs) Sulzberger. Her maternal grandfather was Adolph S. Ochs, who bought The Times in 1896 and was its publisher until his death in 1935, when his son-in-law, Arthur Hays Sulzberger, succeeded him. Mr. Sulzberger died in 1968, and Iphigene Ochs Sulzberger died in 1990.Marian was the last surviving member of her generation of the Sulzberger family. Her siblings were Ruth Sulzberger Holmberg, who was the publisher of The Chattanooga Times for 28 years, and who died in 2017; Judith P. Sulzberger, a physician, who died in 2011; and Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, who died in 2012. He was publisher of The Times from 1963 to 1992 and chairman and chief executive of the company from 1973 to 1997, when he became chairman emeritus.In addition to her daughter Susan Warms Dryfoos, Mrs. Heiskell is survived by two other children from her marriage to Mr. Dryfoos: a daughter, Jacqueline Hays Dryfoos, and a son, Robert Ochs Dryfoos, as well as two stepchildren from her marriage to Mr. Heiskell: Peter Chapin and Diane Schetky; seven grandchildren; eight great-grandchildren; four step-grandchildren; and three step-great-grandchildren.Marian attended the experimental Lincoln School, affiliated with Teachers College at Columbia University, but did not fare well in its unstructured classes; she could barely read or write by the seventh grade. As was discovered later, she had dyslexia, a learning disability that was not then recognized and that had also affected her mother.After a year of tutoring, Marian was admitted to Rosemary Hall, a boarding school in Greenwich, Conn. Always athletic, she played tennis and jumped horses, but the school concluded that she was not meeting its academic standards. She toured Europe for a summer with a tutor and was admitted to Lenox, a prep school in Manhattan. But she disliked her studies, tested poorly and was barely able to graduate.A psychologist finally diagnosed her dyslexia, and after more tutoring she was enrolled at the Froebel League, a three-year training school for prospective kindergarten teachers. She graduated in 1941 but did not pursue a teaching career.She met Mr. Dryfoos at a dance given by her parents. A Dartmouth College graduate, he was a Wall Street investor who held a seat on the New York Stock Exchange. They were married in 1941.Mr. Dryfoos soon joined The Times and began a long apprenticeship that included a year as a reporter and many years as an assistant to his father-in-law, the publisher. In 1957 he became president, and in 1961, when Arthur Hays Sulzberger retired, Mr. Dryfoos became publisher. Two years later, after the strain of a 114-day newspaper strike, he died of a heart ailment related to the rheumatic fever he had had as a child.Soon after her husband’s death in 1963, Marian Dryfoos was elected a director of The Times, a position she held for 34 years. (Her sisters also served for many years as directors of the company.) She worked for the newspaper’s promotion department, focusing on educational projects, such as distributing copies of The Times to schools and colleges.Mrs. Heiskell also served on the boards of the Ford Motor Company and Merck & Company and was a trustee of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York.She married Mr. Heiskell, the chairman of Time Inc., in 1965, a week after his divorce from the actress Madeleine Carroll had been granted. With her new husband, Mrs. Heiskell, who had been active for years in community and environmental projects, expanded her involvement in urban affairs and philanthropic causes. They gave money, lent their names and appeared at affairs to promote education, urban renewal and other causes.Mrs. Heiskell and Mayor Lindsay formed the Council on the Environment in 1970. Over more than two decades, with Mrs. Heiskell at the helm, the organization, joining with city agencies, sought to improve the local environment by, among other things, reclaiming trash-strewn lots and creating 40 community-run parks, playgrounds and gardens. The Marian S. Heiskell Garden, on West 48th Street between Eighth and Ninth Avenues, was opened in 1997.The council also organized 33 farmers’ markets, began environmental education programs in 15 schools and promoted early wastepaper recycling programs.The recipient of many awards for her environmental work, Mrs. Heiskell was a director of the National Audubon Society, the National Park Foundation, the New York Botanical Garden, the New York City Partnership and the Community Service Society of New York.Mr. Heiskell retired from Time in 1980 and died in 2003. In a memoir, “Outsider, Insider: An Unlikely Success Story,” privately published in 1998, he wrote that Marian, his third wife, had given him a sense of family and security that he had craved since childhood.Mrs. Heiskell stepped down as a director of The Times in 1997 but remained a principal owner of the company under a trust that passed to the four children of Iphigene Ochs Sulzberger upon her death in 1990. The trust, set up in 1986 under an agreement intended to preserve family control of the company, holds 92 percent of the Class B stock, which is not publicly traded and elects 70 percent of the board members. Class A stock, traded on the New York Stock Exchange and widely held, elects 30 percent of the directors, whose numbers fluctuate slightly.In succeeding years, Mrs. Heiskell maintained an office at The Times, dining in the cafeteria with staff members and conferring with her brother, the chairman emeritus, known all his life as Punch, and her nephew, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger Jr., who succeeded his father as publisher and chairman. At the end of 2017, Arthur Jr. was succeeded as publisher by his son, Arthur Gregg Sulzberger, known as A. G. Sulzberger, while remaining chairman. Mrs. Heiskell’s daughter Jacqueline Dryfoos served on the board of The Times from 2000 to 2005.AdvertisementSupported byThe Brazilian president’s pro-business agenda will be a test of American companies’ commitment to the environment. By Leila Salazar-LópezMs. Salazar-López is a defender of the Amazon rain forest.The rise of President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil has put the environment and human rights in peril. His promises to open the Amazon for business could result in huge deforestation and the release of vast greenhouse-gas emissions. His threats to slash fundamental environmental and indigenous rights standards that help keep the Amazon standing are a threat to climate stability. Mr. Bolsonaro, however, wouldn’t be the only one to blame for devastating the Amazon. Companies that accept his invitation to reap profit from Amazon destruction, and the financial institutions that provide the capital, will also bear great responsibility. And those poised to benefit from Mr. Bolsonaro’s reckless policies include American companies and financial institutions.Two of the largest publicly traded agribusiness firms operating in the Brazilian Amazon — Archer Daniels Midland and Bunge — are American-based companies. Agribusiness, in particular soy and beef production, is a leading driver of forest loss and human-rights abuses in the Brazilian Amazon, and A.D.M. and Bunge are two of the largest soy traders in Brazil. As producers seek more and more land for growing crops and grazing cattle, they push ever deeper into the Amazon. According to a report published in 2014, an estimated 90 percent of deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon is due to agribusiness activities.Where would these powerful agribusiness companies get the capital they need to bulldoze deeper into the Amazon, if they should take Mr. Bolsonaro up on his offer to eliminate environmental protections?In no small part from American-based asset managers BlackRock, State Street and Vanguard, which are shareholders in all five of the largest publicly traded agribusiness companies operating in the Brazilian Amazon. As a group of researchers recently demonstrated, the “Big Three” asset managers hold 15 percent to 20 percent of all of A.D.M. and Bunge’s available shares (finance researchers call ownership above 5 percent of all shares “blockholding” and generally assume it to imply significant influence).This means they have the potential to exert pressure on the very companies that could either moderate or enable Mr. Bolsonaro’s threats to the future of the Amazon — and the climate. Many Americans, in turn, have a direct relationship with those asset managers, since those firms manage many pension funds and retirement accounts.Of course, Mr. Bolsonaro’s agribusiness-friendly agenda should not be seen in isolation. Previous Brazilian administrations also worked to undermine environmental and human-rights protections to benefit the industrial exploitation of the Amazon. It required the concerted efforts of Brazilian indigenous and social groups and their global allies to force governments and corporations operating in the Amazon to curb deforestation, which until recently had been relatively contained.Long before Mr. Bolsonaro’s rise, numerous agribusiness companies made commitments to end Amazon deforestation from their supply chains. Both Bunge and A.D.M., for example, have committed to eliminate deforestation in their supply chains, although they haven’t always lived up to those promises. In May 2018 Bunge was fined for activities related to illegal deforestation, and some deforestation-watchers have criticized its subsequent policy update as inadequate.BlackRock, for its part, has supported the Paris Climate Accord and its chief executive, Larry Fink, has been called the “conscience of Wall Street” for his exhortations to companies to “benefit all of their stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers and the communities in which they operate.” Yet Mr. Fink’s most recent letter to investors, published this month, makes no direct mention of climate change, and BlackRock’s statement after Brazil’s election in October appears to celebrate Mr. Bolsonaro’s win, lauding his commitment “to building on the reform agenda put in place over the past two years.”Though the role of asset managers might seem far removed from the felling of trees in the Amazon rain forest, the world’s largest asset managers could play a pivotal role in safeguarding the global climate by way of their investments in companies operating in biomes crucial to climate stability like the Amazon rain forest. The world could have less than 12 years to turn this sinking climate ship around, as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s most recent report makes clear.Mr. Bolsonaro’s rise to power will test companies’ promises to be responsible. Will leading global agribusiness companies be complicit in Mr. Bolsonaro’s assault on the Amazon and its people, thus sacrificing their commitments, their reputation and our climate? And will financial institutions like BlackRock heed their own calls for companies to pursue purpose and not just profit? Or will they put short-term profits ahead of the planet’s future?If these influential companies don’t take a clear and principled stand against Mr. Bolsonaro’s promises to open the Amazon for business, they will also bear responsibility for abetting his plunder of the world’s largest tropical rain forest.AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie BennerWASHINGTON — Jessie K. Liu has withdrawn herself from consideration for the No. 3 spot at the Justice Department, the department said on Thursday.Earlier this month, President Trump planned to nominate Ms. Liu, who currently is the United States attorney for the District of Columbia, as associate attorney general, who is the department’s third-ranking official and oversees the civil division.The job would have given Ms. Liu broad oversight over civil rights, antitrust and environmental matters, and she would have supervised the Justice Department division that acts as the government’s law firm in civil matters.Ms. Liu dropped from the running because the Senate Judiciary Committee objected to her nomination, said a department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec.Senator Michael Lee, Republican of Utah, led the opposition to Ms. Liu’s nomination, on the grounds that she was not a conservative enough choice, according to a law enforcement official with knowledge of the debate.The position of associate attorney general has been open, and without a nominee, since Rachel L. Brand left that post in February 2018 to become general counsel at Walmart. It is not clear whether Mr. Trump and Attorney General William P. Barr have another contender in mind for the job.Mr. Barr expressed dismay over Ms. Liu’s decision.“She has been an outstanding United States attorney and would have made an outstanding associate attorney general,” Mr. Barr said in a statement. “I have zero doubt she would have faithfully executed my priorities and advanced my rule-of-law agenda.”Mr. Barr announced that he would instead appoint her to lead the attorney general’s advisory committee, which counsels the attorney general on policy, procedure and management matters that affect federal prosecutors.Mr. Barr said he gave Ms. Liu the post so she could “play a broader role in the department.”As the United States attorney for the District of Columbia, Ms. Liu leads more than 300 prosecutors and oversees some of the most politically fraught investigations in the country.In recent months, prominent cases that the office has handled have touched on foreign influence, including the prosecution of Maria Butina, who pleaded guilty last year to helping Russia gain political clout in the United States. The office is also considering whether to bring charges against Gregory B. Craig, who served as White House counsel in the Obama administration, over violations of foreign lobbying statutes.Ms. Liu replaces Richard Moore, the United States attorney for the Southern District of Alabama, as the head of the advisory committee. Mr. Moore will remain on as an adviser.Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBOSTON/SAN FRANCISCO — Some environmentally focussed investors are not ready to buy into Lyft Inc or Uber Technologies Inc, worried about the climate impact of this year's two most closely watched initial public offerings.Both companies hope to push people away from car ownership and promote shared and sustainable transportation services, among their many ambitions that have already reshaped traffic in major U.S. cities.Lyft began trading on Friday and its larger rival Uber will kick off its IPO this month, though neither has shown itself to be profitable and shares of Lyft sank below their initial price of $72 on Monday.Academics and city planners are still studying whether the companies will help reduce carbon emissions by making better use of existing vehicle fleets, or increase them by clogging traffic and diverting riders from trains and buses.But even as the companies argue congestion has many causes including growing city populations, some investors cite early indications that ride-hailing technology puts more, not fewer, cars on the road."As far as I can tell, they're actually putting more cars into the congested areas, and they're pulling business out of the transit systems," said Murray Rosenblith, portfolio manager of the New Alternatives Fund, which aims to make socially responsible investments."This is not an area where New Alternatives is going to get engaged," Rosenblith said.Joshua Brockwell, a director at Azzad Asset Management, which also factors environmental issues into investment decisions, said both companies also face the issue of drivers "deadheading," or driving around in between fares.While both also aim to reduce private car ownership, he said, "that's a not an eco-friendly goal in and of itself. It's overall 'miles traveled' and carbon emissions that count."Representatives for several other well-known climate-focused investors said they do not buy IPOs or were not ready to weigh in on ride-hailing, including Green Century Funds, Boston Common Asset Management and Parnassus Investments.Research shows mixed results. A 2017 University of California at Davis study found ride-hailing boosted use of commuter rail but pulled people away from buses and light rail. In addition people often used the apps to take trips they previously made by walking, biking, taking public transit or not taking at all.A study by the San Francisco County Transportation Authority found that about half of new congestion in San Francisco from 2010 to 2016 was from ride-hailing. Average speeds in the city stood at 20.9 miles per hour at the end of the period, researchers found, 3.1 miles per hour slower than at the start. https://bit.ly/2EsU7cgDrivers for Lyft and Uber often travel far to reach urban areas before they even turn on the app. It is common for drivers from California’s Central Valley to drive close to 100 miles (160 km) to San Francisco in search of more lucrative fares.Lyft executives including Chief Policy Officer Anthony Foxx said that the company has taken other steps to combat congestion such as showing bus arrival times on its smartphone app and investing in bicycles and scooters. Lyft also says it spent millions of dollars on carbon offsets in 2018, and supports transit infrastructure. "We are on a long path. We didn't get to this level of congestion in our cities overnight," Foxx said in an interview with Reuters.Uber did not make executives available to comment, but the company has made its own commitments to bikes, scooters and other sustainability initiatives. Its CEO Dara Khosrowshahi in September promised $10 million to study ideas such as congestion pricing to speed traffic. One opportunity is that Uber and Lyft could help drivers buy more expensive electric cars, which have a lower cost per mile. Accelerating the shift to electric could win over Seb Beloe, head of research at WHEB Asset Management in London, another investor focussed on sustainability, he said via email.AdvertisementSupported byMini-VowsBy Stacey SolieChristina Lynn Boser and Michael James Toblar Choate were married April 13 on Santa Cruz Island, Calif. Brittany Bauhaus, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister, officiated.Ms. Boser, 37, is an island ecologist for the Nature Conservancy, a nonprofit environmental organization based in Arlington, Va. She graduated from the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and received a master’s degree in coyote behavioral ecology from SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry in Syracuse.She is the daughter of Sheryl L. Boser of Madison and the late William R. Boser.Mr. Choate, 30, is a subsea business industry specialist for the Department of Defense in Ventura, Calif. He graduated from the Maine Maritime Academy in Castine, Me.He is the son of Deborah T. Choate and Rick J. Choate of Valencia, Calif.Ms. Boser and Mr. Choate met in April 2016 at Harbor Cove Beach in Ventura when the old work truck Ms. Boser was driving got stuck. She had driven to the beach to collect sand for a restoration project on Santa Cruz Island, where invasive Argentine ants were swarming baby birds in their nests, interfering with native plant pollination and crowding out native ants. To rid the island of these pests without harming other species, she designed specialized bait, and wanted to do a trial run of the distribution equipment, using sand as a stand-in for the bait.All was going as planned, until the truck got stuck. Mr. Choate and a friend were also at the beach watching ships pass along the shore when they heard the sound of tires spinning.Mr. Choate rode his bike over to help. He used a piece of wood as a wedge and was able to steer the truck back onto compacted sand. He rode away, but returned to suggest that he and Ms. Boser exchange numbers, in case, he said, she should ever need his help in the future. Ms. Boser agreed before it dawned on her that this was a flirtation. She had not seen it coming.“That’s not how my brain works,” Ms. Boser said. “I’m sure I was completely flushed and blushing.”The next day Mr. Choate called to invite Ms. Boser to go hiking at Arroyo Verde park in Ventura. She in turn asked him to join her and some friends for oysters at the beach.Ms. Boser’s friends greeted Mr. Choate with intense curiosity. “I don’t date a lot,” Ms. Boser said, “so he got interrogated by everybody.”Mr. Choate, impressed with her travel, said, “That’s when I found out she’d been all over the damn world.” Afterward, strolling along the Ventura pier, they kissed.But Mr. Choate left town the following week. As the captain of a ship that supplied oil rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, he was often gone for a month at a time, and home for only a few weeks before shipping out again. This schedule did not allow him much opportunity for a relationship. “I’d been single for quite awhile,” he said.But they texted each other, and he continued to reach out to Ms. Boser whenever he was home on leave. “I was excited about it,” he said, “and very interested in her and getting to know her better.”The time apart allowed Ms. Boser the chance to gradually adjust to being with someone, but she wondered if it would work long-term.“One, he’s gone for a long portion of the year, and two, he’s younger,” she said. But when they were together, she was happy. “He listens to me, he is kind, and he is kind to other people.”A scientist even in matters of the heart, Ms. Boser populated a spreadsheet with data about a hypothetical wedding.“I’m looking at these things and deciding if this is the life I want,” she said. “I decided yes, because I could see a future.”Still, they did not move in together as Ms. Boser had a sickly cat. Two years into the relationship, the cat died and she packed her things. At the time, Mr. Choate was working a new job, piloting tugboats off the coast of Maine. “I called him and I said, ‘O.K., I’m moving into your house now.’ ”That same week, a heavy rope crushed Mr. Choate’s hand and he had to have portions of two fingers amputated. Ms. Boser booked a flight for later that day.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — The Senate on Thursday confirmed acting Interior Secretary David Bernhardt to lead the department on a permanent basis, despite complaints by Democrats that the former oil and gas lobbyist has used his federal position to benefit former industry clients.Senators voted 56-41 to approve Bernhardt's nomination to oversee more than 500 million acres of public lands and other resources, including national parks, monuments and wildlife refuges. He succeeds Ryan Zinke, who resigned in January amid a series of ethics investigations.Bernhardt represented energy and agricultural interests until President Donald Trump picked him in April 2017 to be deputy secretary.Bernhardt, who was confirmed to the No. 2 position in July 2017, says he has complied with all ethics laws and rules. But Democrats and environmental groups accuse him of using his federal post to shape regulations and legislation in favor of oil and gas interests and other former clients."The Zinke ethics hurricane was bad enough. America should not be harmed again by a Bernhardt ethical typhoon," said Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore.Citing figures from the Office of Government Ethics, Wyden said at least 27 former clients representing the oil and gas industry, coal, water districts and agriculture pose "unlimited numbers of conflicts of interest" for Bernhardt."The interior secretary is supposed to be running (the department) for the benefit of the public, not for special interests," Wyden said.Wyden and other Democrats said Bernhardt has taken actions to weaken the Endangered Species Act, including erosion of protections for a California fish species long targeted by a former client, the Westlands Water District, one of the largest and most politically powerful water utilities in the country.Critics also say Bernhardt has acted to ease regulations holding oil companies accountable for spills and increased drilling and mining access on millions of acres of public land used by the sage grouse, a threatened bird species.Sen. Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican who leads the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, said Bernhardt, 49, has the experience and expertise needed to lead the department. The Colorado native worked at the Interior Department for eight years under President George W. Bush, including as the department's top lawyer."He is from the West, he has great familiarity with the issues that will come before him and he has proven that he can ably lead the department," Murkowski said. She said Bernhardt "has proven to be a strong partner not only for Alaska, but states all across the country."She linked ethics allegations against Bernhardt to unspecified, "pretty well-funded groups that are working very hard and very energetically against his nomination."Three Democrats — Sens. Martin Heinrich of New Mexico, Joe Manchin of West Virginia, and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona — voted for Bernhardt, as did independent Sen. Angus King of Maine, who caucuses with Democrats.Democrats and environmental groups also criticized Bernhardt for failing to stand up to Trump on his proposal to drastically expand offshore drilling along the East and West Coasts, including off the coast of Florida, where a moratorium on offshore drilling expires in 2022.Florida Republican Sens. Marco Rubio and Rick Scott voted in favor of Bernhardt after receiving assurances from him and other administration officials that Florida would be excluded from drilling proposals.Rubio said in a statement that the department cannot legally take Florida off the table until public comments are received. But, he said, "I am confident that when all is said and done the ban on oil drilling off of Florida's coasts will remain in place."Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of New York said Bernhardt's refusal to rule out offshore drilling in Florida "should be a wake-up call to my colleagues all up and down the coasts — Atlantic, Pacific, Gulf," that offshore drilling is a possibility despite bipartisan opposition."It is hard to imagine someone whose background is so at odds with the department's mission as Mr. Bernhardt," Schumer said. "President Trump, for all his talk of draining the swamp, wants to add yet another Washington swamp creature lobbyist to his cabinet."Kieran Suckling, executive director of the Arizona-based Center for Biological Diversity, said Bernhardt "will be even worse than Ryan Zinke."AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa Friedman and Emily CochraneWASHINGTON — Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, will force Democrats on Tuesday to take a stand on the Green New Deal and its ambitious goal of conquering climate change — after a long windup designed to drive a wedge between cautious Democratic senators and the liberal activists pushing for climate action.The resolution, which pairs quick action to throttle carbon emissions and liberal job-creation programs, will fail at the hands of the Republican majority. Many, if not most, Democrats plan to vote present, arguing that the resolution up for a vote is not anything like a fully formed piece of legislation and has not even received a hearing. Stunt votes in the past by both parties have had little political impact.But Republicans say putting the Democrats on record is significant, and it is just the beginning: They intend to keep the Green New Deal in the spotlight as long as possible to paint Democrats as socialists, out of touch with American values.“It’s the gift that keeps on giving,” said Senator James M. Inhofe, an Oklahoma Republican who once brought a snowball to the Senate floor in an effort to disprove climate change.Over the past several weeks a parade of Republicans have accused supporters of the Green New Deal of plotting to ban cars and cows, outlaw air travel, and criminalize milkshakes, all while spending trillions of dollars on a dubious effort to eliminate coal, oil and gas and guarantee jobs.Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, called the proposal a “utopian manifesto.” Senator John Thune of South Dakota called it a “socialist fantasy.” Representative Rob Bishop of Utah munched on a hamburger at a news conference where he mused between bites that if the Green New Deal becomes law, “I could no longer eat this type of thing,” since cattle would be eradicated.Using a price tag calculated by the conservative American Action Forum — $93 trillion over 10 years — fact sheets circulated among Republicans offer a litany of fanciful ways to use Green New Deal funds, such as filling Lake Michigan with Coca-Cola.Democrats have accused Mr. McConnell of trying to sabotage any action on climate change and pushed Republicans to come up with a plan of their own for tackling it.Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who introduced the House version of the Green New Deal, blasted Republicans on Twitter for holding a “bluff vote” and called it a “disgrace.”Earlier this month, a handful of Democratic senators — including Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader — interrupted speeches attacking the Green New Deal with questions about their Republican colleagues’ belief in climate change.“Do you believe climate change is real?” Mr. Schumer repeatedly asked.Democrats acknowledge that Republicans have been aided by the Green New Deal’s effort to link the reduction of planet-warming pollution to controversial economic goals like employment guarantees and single-payer health care. And the resolution’s botched rollout — when a staff member issued and then quickly retracted a fact sheet that joked about how long it will take to “fully get rid of farting cows and airplanes” — also gave opponents ready-made talking points.But many question the political impact of a stunt vote. Daniel Lashof, who directs the United States operations of the World Resources Institute, a global environmental think tank, accused Republicans of a “bad-faith effort to label whatever the Democrats do as socialism.” He predicted it wouldn’t resonate beyond those already antagonistic to climate change.Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, an outspoken advocate for addressing climate change, dismissed Republican attacks on the Green New Deal as “a lot of made up calumnies.”Several Democrats said the caucus still is not unified on how to approach the vote on the Green New Deal, though most are expected to vote “present.”But Republicans say they are on to something.“At a political level, it’s clearly dividing the Democrats,” said J. Scott Jennings, a former campaign adviser to Mr. McConnell. “There are clearly Democrats who understand what a disaster this was to be rolled out the way it was, but they feel trapped by the base of their party that is demanding this sort of extremely out-of-the-mainstream stuff.”But climate change is not “extremely out of the mainstream.” Concern about climate change in the United States is the highest it has ever been. On the heels of a deadly wildfire season supercharged by climate change and a report by 13 federal agencies finding global warming poses a serious threat to the economy, Americans are more convinced than ever that emissions from tailpipes and smokestacks are having an impact on the planet.In many ways the Green New Deal, with its call to power the country entirely on wind, solar and other zero-carbon energy and ensuring the United States eliminates as much carbon pollution as it creates by about 2030, has injected a new enthusiasm for tackling the problem: Every Democratic presidential candidate has been pressed on his or her support of the plan, and it has helped propel climate change into a top-tier issue for 2020.But it also has created awkward moments for moderate Democrats. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, for example, was excoriated and mocked on “Saturday Night Live” after she told a group of visiting school children that she opposed the Green New Deal because it wasn’t practical and “there’s no way to pay for it.” Ms. Feinstein has a 90 percent lifetime rating from the League of Conservation Voters, which rates lawmakers on their environmental votes and policies, and has sponsored major climate change legislation for more than 20 years.Joseph Pinion, a Republican political consultant who advocates a carbon tax, criticized Green New Deal supporters for making it a purity test of support for to address climate change. He called the resolution “possibly the largest setback in terms of getting Republicans to the table certainly in my lifetime.”By packaging efforts to curb emissions with unrelated issues like promises of a federal job guarantee, vacation pay for all Americans and a single-payer health care system, he said the Green New Deal feeds the belief among conservatives that Democrats are using climate change as a cover to enact a broadly liberal economic agenda.“The problem with the Green New Deal is that it unifies Republicans,” Mr. Pinion said. “From your never-Trumpers to your Trump skeptics to your Trumportunists, all of these individuals are united in the idea that the policies of a Green New Deal would be disastrous for America.”But polling on the plan is strong, at least among Democrats. Data commissioned by environmental groups in early primary states found 74 percent of likely primary voters reacted favorably when presented the Green New Deal. A new Iowa poll this week reinforced that, finding 91 percent of Iowa Democrats want a candidate who supports the Green New Deal.“If anything the Green New Deal has brought energy to an issue that had gone stale,” Mr. Whitehouse said, “and as long as we can stay united and keep making progress, it will work out really well for us.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Stanley ReedLONDON — The Norwegian government has recommended that the country’s $1 trillion wealth fund sell its holdings in a group of companies that focus on finding and producing oil and gas.The decision, the result of a two-year review of the giant fund’s investments in fossil fuels, is a compromise that stops short of divestment in major energy companies like Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell. But the fund’s activities are closely watched, and the move seems likely to increase concern among investors about the risks of holding such stocks.“It clearly will send a signal to the fund industry and the investment community,” said Jan Erik Saugestad, chief executive of Storebrand Asset Management, a Norwegian financial services firm.The Norwegian finance minister, Siv Jensen, said on Friday that the government aimed to “reduce the vulnerability of our common wealth to a permanent oil price decline.”The stocks to be sold are from a group of 134 companies labeled exploration and production firms by the London-based index provider FTSE Russell, a list that includes the American oil producer Occidental Petroleum and the shale driller Pioneer Natural Resources. A fund spokeswoman pegged the value of those holdings at 66 billion kroner, or about $7.6 billion.The fund, called the Government Pension Fund Global, was created with revenue from the country’s oil and gas operations and is invested in securities and real estate outside Norway with the intention of providing for an aging population and for when oil revenues begin to decline. The government also draws on the fund for current needs.Its managers and other experts have argued that because Norway, a large oil and gas producer, already has large petroleum holdings, the fund should not invest in oil and gas stocks. The fund is managed by the Norwegian central bank.The move, which will need ratification from Parliament, appears to mark at least a temporary end of a debate that began in late 2017 when the fund’s manager, Yngve Slyngstad, recommended exiting oil stocks to hedge against “the vulnerability of government wealth to a permanent drop in oil and gas prices.”The companies the fund would divest would be phased out gradually, once the policy is approved, the government said.Some analysts said the Norwegian government’s move signaled fears about the future of the oil business, as concerns grow about the industry’s role in climate change.“Obviously, oil and gas will be around for some time, but being too dependent on oil and gas is risky, whether it be for a nation or an oil company,” said Bard V. Solhjell, chief executive of the WWF-Norway, an environmental group.While Norway has a strong environmental movement, its economy is heavily dependent on the oil and gas industry, which contributed about 21 percent of government revenues last year.Explaining why it was not excluding giant oil companies from the fund, the Finance Ministry said it anticipated that almost all the growth in renewable energy over the next decade would come from diversified companies that did not focus exclusively on renewables.Analysts said the ministry was probably referring to oil giants like BP and Royal Dutch Shell, which are among the top 20 equity holdings of the fund. (At the end of last year, oil and gas stocks made up about 6 percent of the fund’s stock portfolio.) These companies are making investments in renewables that, while sizable, are modest compared with the amounts of cash they continue to pump into oil and gas.“The reason they are keeping them is because they think they might increase their renewables, which are of course a direct competitor to oil and gas,” said Andrew Grant, a senior analyst at Carbon Tracker, a research organization that warns investors about potential climate risks.Mr. Grant and others said the Norwegian government, perhaps as a political compromise, was dumping the oil companies in the fund that had the greatest perceived risk because they were focused on fossil fuels, while encouraging those that remained to invest more in renewables.AdvertisementSupported byNew York’s aging below-street infrastructure is tough to maintain, and the corrosive rock salt and “freeze-thaw” cycles of winter make it even worse.By Corey Kilgannon[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]A series of recent manhole fires in the heart of Manhattan forced the evacuation of several theaters and was a stark reminder that the subway is not the only creaky infrastructure beneath the streets of New York City. Underground lies a chaotic assemblage of utilities that, much like the subway, are lifelines for the city: a sprawling tangle of water mains, power cables, gas and steam lines, telecom wires and sewers.The city has one of the oldest and largest networks of subterranean infrastructure in the world, with some portions dating more than a century and prone to leaks and cracks.And winter — from the corrosive rock salt used on streets and sidewalks to “freeze-thaw” cycles that weaken pipes — makes infrastructure problems even worse. In the late 1800s, many of the city’s overhead utilities were buried to lessen the exposure to winter weather. “People think it’s all protected and safe, but it’s really not,” said Patrick McHugh, vice president of electrical engineering and planning for Con Edison, which maintains about 90,000 miles of underground cable in the city.“You have water, sewage, electricity and gas down there, and people don’t appreciate the effort that goes into keeping all that working,” he added.When rock salt melts ice, and the water seeps down manholes and into electrical units, it can set off fires and explosions strong enough to pop a 300-pound manhole cover five stories into the air.For days after a storm, Con Edison officials say, they often deal with scores of electrical fires caused by the rock salt eating away at electrical cable insulation. The wet salt can create sparking that burns the insulation, producing both fire and gases that can combust and pop the manhole lids.To alleviate the threat, the officials said, the utility switched most of its manhole covers to vented ones that allow gases to escape, “so they cannot form a combustible amount,” Mr. McHugh said.“It also lets smoke escape, which can tip off the public to notify the authorities,” he added.Winter can also bring an increase in gas-line breakages. Con Edison, which maintains 4,300 miles of gas mains in and around New York City, records about 500 leaks — most of them nonemergencies — in a typical month, but many more in winter.Even this past January, which was unseasonably mild, there were 750 leaks, Con Edison officials said.The extreme temperature swings that many researchers link to climate change are adding to the challenges of winter. Officials monitor weather forecasts closely for freeze-thaw cycles, when they put extra repair crews on call.During a polar vortex in late January, for instance, single-digit temperatures in the city quickly ballooned into the 50s. The thaw, much welcomed by many New Yorkers, worried Tasos Georgelis, deputy commissioner for water and sewer operations at the Department of Environmental Protection, which operates the city’s water system.“When you get a freeze and a thaw, the ground around the water mains expands and contracts, and puts external pressure on the pipes,” Mr. Georgelis said. Along the city’s roughly 6,500 miles of water mains, there are typically between 400 and 600 breaks a year, he added. The majority occur in winter, when the cold can make older cast-iron mains brittle.Environmental Protection officials said the department repaired 75 water-main breaks in January, including one in Lower Manhattan that disrupted rush-hour subway service and another on the West Side that snarled traffic and left nearby buildings without water for hours.The city’s 7,500 miles of sewer lines are less affected by cold weather because they are generally buried deeper than other utilities, below the frost line, agency officials said.Upgrading the city’s below-street utilities is a slow, painstaking process, “because you have such a fixed-in-place system,” said Rae Zimmerman, a research professor of planning and public administration at New York University.But there is progress. Con Edison officials said they had begun replacing the city’s nearly 1,600 miles of natural gas lines — which were made of either cast iron or unprotected steel — with plastic piping. The plastic is less susceptible to corrosion, cracks and leaks, said the officials, who added that they were swapping about 100 miles of line each year.The city is also replacing older, leak-prone water and sewer mains.Some pipes that are more than a century old hold up because they were built with a thicker grade of cast iron, according to Environmental Protection Department officials. For less healthy ones, the agency has invested more than $1 billion in the past five years — with an additional $1.4 billion budgeted over the next five years — for upgrades and replacements. New pipes will be made of a more durable, graphite-rich cast iron known as ductile iron.Of course, winter also poses problems aboveground. Most nonemergency repair and construction work involving concrete is halted because concrete and some types of dirt, used to fill in trenches, freeze in colder temperatures, said Ian Michaels, a spokesman for the city’s Department of Design and Construction.Digging by hand is also a challenge in frozen ground, so many excavations that are close to pipes and other utilities are put off, Mr. Michaels said. And asphalt is harder to obtain because it must be kept and transported at high temperatures, he added.In the extreme cold, city officials will not risk shutting down water mains for construction because spillage into the street could freeze, Mr. Michaels said. He added that stopping the water flow could freeze the private water-service connections that branch off the mains, he said.Even the basic task of locating utilities under the street can be complicated because infrastructure has been added piecemeal over the decades.Street surfaces are affected by winter weather, too: Last year, the city filled 255,904 potholes.And should anyone forget that filling potholes, like snow removal, is a sacred staple of constituent services, transportation officials have compiled the number of potholes the city has filled — more than 1,786,300 — since Mayor Bill de Blasio took office in 2014.Potholes form when water and salt seep into cracks, freeze and expand, creating a larger crevice, said Joe Carbone, who works for the Transportation Department, where he is known as the pothole chief.Simply put, more freeze-thaw cycles result in more potholes, he said. Currently, the department has 25 crews repairing potholes. During peak pothole-repair season in early March, that number can expand to more than 60.Still, the department is continually resurfacing the city’s more than 6,000 miles of streets and 19,000 lane miles. Each year, agency officials said, it uses more than one million tons of asphalt to repave more than 1,300 lane-miles of street.Of the 400 city laborers who work on water mains, many learn the finer points of leak repair at a training center in Queens, where underground pipes are made to spring leaks for repair drills.Workers from the Department of Environmental Protection recently gathered around a muddy hole as a co-worker, Nehemiah Dejesus, scrambled to apply a stainless-steel repair clamp around a cracked segment that was spewing water.“Don’t get nervous,” instructed Milton Velez, the agency’s district supervisor for Queens.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHOEDSPRUIT, South Africa — Riff Raff the South African elephant who had faced a possible death sentence for knocking down fences and trampling on farmland has secured a reprieve after activists intervened.Landowners in Hoedspruit near Kruger National Park had sought a court ruling to have the six-tonne bull elephant destroyed after he damaged their property.Activists, who had tried to protect the elephant from angry landowners in 2017 by moving him away from the area only to find he wandered back, blocked a ruling against Riff Raff by saying it was natural for the animals to roam.Activists from Humane Society International/Africa (HIS/Africa) and Global Supplies said killing him would be a "quick fix" to a biological and environmental issue.Many communities across Africa living in areas where elephants roam complain about damage to their land by the world's largest land mammals.Fences surround many South African national parks but they rarely prove strong enough to put off a determined elephant.HSI/Africa Director Audrey Delsink said any order to destroy Riff Raff would "be a tragedy not only for this amazing animal but for all so-called 'problem' elephants across South Africa who face a similar fate."As many as 50 destruction permits were issued against trespassing elephants between 2016 and 2017 in South Africa, according to the Elephant Specialist Advisory Group.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ceylan YeginsuLONDON — A toxic cocktail of chemicals released by the Grenfell Tower fire still contaminated the London area around the building almost a year and a half later, and could pose a serious health risk to local residents and survivors of the blaze, new research has found.Researchers from the University of Central Lancashire analyzed soil, debris and char samples within 140 meters, or about 460 feet, of the tower in West London and found “significant environmental contamination,” including cancer-causing chemicals and other substances that can cause respiratory and nerve problems.“There is undoubtedly evidence of contamination in the area surrounding the tower, which highlights the need for further in-depth, independent analysis to quantify any risks to residents,” said Anna Stec, a professor in fire chemistry and toxicity at the university who led the independent study.“It is now crucial to put in place long-term health screening to assess any long-term adverse health effects of the fire on local residents, emergency responders and cleanup workers,” she said.Professor Stec’s research found that soil samples within 100 meters of Grenfell Towers contained six toxic chemicals at levels around 160 times higher than those typically found in soils from urban areas. Some of the samples also contained materials used in insulation foams and upholstered furniture that are potentially toxic to the nervous system.More than 17 months after the fire, researchers found dust and a yellow oily deposit in an apartment about 500 feet from the tower containing potent irritants that can cause asthma and other respiratory problem.In the aftermath of the June 14, 2017, fire that killed 72 people, local residents reported health problems like coughing and vomiting, which they attributed to breathing air polluted by the fire. But public health officials said they had been assessing the air quality since the fire and had found the health risk to be “consistently low.”Last October, Professor Stec published the preliminary findings of her research that showed high concentrations of potential carcinogens in the area, prompting the government to announce plans to conduct comprehensive soil analysis to check for contamination.“We take Professor Stec’s findings extremely seriously, and fully appreciate the ongoing health concerns,” the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government said in a statement on Thursday.“We have established a comprehensive program of environmental checks to fully assess the risks and take appropriate action,” the statement said. “Professor Stec is part of an independent group of scientists overseeing this work and her findings will inform the checks we are conducting.”The ministry urged residents with health concerns to speak to their local doctors, saying they would arrange for additional health checks.The shift in the government’s attitude parallels that seen in the United States after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.Rescue and cleanup workers at the World Trade Center were at first allowed to toil there without respirators, and both New York City and federal officials were later accused of playing down the risks from inhaling dust and smoke from the site. In the following years, studies firmly linked the ailments of hundreds of people to that exposure.Near the Grenfell site, residents responded to the latest evidence of contamination with anger and frustration, saying the findings of the study had confirmed their longstanding health concerns that were consistently dismissed by the authorities as paranoia.“I have questioned what immediate and long-term heath screening was being put in place to monitor what was locally becoming known as the ‘Grenfell Cough,’ yet the response from officials has always been that the area was safe and that local G.P.s had not reported any increase in symptoms,” said Judy Bolton, a former nurse and local resident.“Now, in March 2019, we are being told that our health has been put at risk and is likely to be in the future,” she added. “Who is being held responsible and accountable for, yet again, ignoring the entirely valid concerns of local residents? The authorities in question should hang their heads in shame.”On Thursday, residents were informed that a multiagency government program would carry out further testing and provide health screenings, but local activists said the government’s lack of urgency on the matter was unacceptable.“For far too long, this community has been repeatedly ignored,” Justice4Grenfell, a community group, said in a statement. “Apologies will not do it now — how many more lives are they willing to put at risk?”Anna Schaverien contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKAARST, Germany — IKEA, the world's biggest furniture retailer, is preparing to serve lettuce grown in high-tech containers outside its stores as part of efforts to improve its environmental profile.IKEA, which demonstrated one of the LED-powered containers at an event at a store in Kaarst, western Germany, expects to start serving home-grown salad to customers at its restaurants from pilot projects at two stores in Sweden next month."The conditions are perfect for maximum taste and growth and you also have the sustainability advantage because you don't have the transport," said Catarina Englund, innovation manager for the Ingka Group, which owns most IKEA stores.The containers, managed by circular farming firm Bonbio, have four shelves, carrying up to 3,600 plants in total, fed by nutrients extracted from organic waste, including leftovers from IKEA's restaurants. Circular farming involves waste food being turned into nutrients that are used to grow new crops.The system, known as hydroponic farming, means the plants need no soil or pesticides, and use 90 percent less water and less than half of the area of conventional farming, with the LED lights to be powered by renewable energy, IKEA said.One of the world's biggest sellers of LED lights, IKEA also sells home hydroponic kits for hobby indoor gardeners.Englund said about 15-20 kilograms of salad can be harvested a day from each container and the fact that the lettuce will be grown on site means production can be precisely tailored to the demand of a store, reducing food waste.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim Tankersley and Michael TackettWASHINGTON — President Trump sent Congress on Monday a record $4.75 trillion budget plan that calls for increased military spending and sharp cuts to domestic programs like education and environmental protection for the 2020 fiscal year.Mr. Trump’s budget, the largest in federal history, includes a nearly 5 percent increase in military spending — which is more than the Pentagon had asked for — and an additional $8.6 billion for construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. It also contains what White House officials called a total of $1.9 trillion in cost savings from mandatory safety-net programs, like Medicaid and Medicare, the federal health care programs for the elderly and the poor.The budget is unlikely to have much effect on actual spending levels, which are controlled by Congress. Democratic leaders in both the House and the Senate pronounced the budget dead on arrival on Sunday, and Mr. Trump’s budgets largely failed to gain traction in previous years, when fellow Republicans controlled both chambers.But the blueprint is a declaration of Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign priorities and the starting skirmish in the race for 2020, as both Republicans and Democrats try to carve out their messages to appeal to voters.The president’s budget quickly antagonized Democrats while making clear the contours of how he plans to run for re-election. It is replete with aggressively optimistic economic assumptions and appeals to his core constituents, and it envisions deep cuts to programs that Democrats hold dear. Yet it projects trillion-dollar deficits for the next four years and does not balance the budget for 15 years.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, called the proposal “a gut punch to the American middle class.” He said Mr. Trump’s requested cuts to Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, “as well as numerous other middle-class programs, are devastating, but not surprising.”The budget would curb the growth of Medicare and Medicaid, two programs Mr. Trump had previously pledged to leave intact. And it proposes shaving $818 billion from projected spending on Medicare over 10 years and cutting nearly $1.5 trillion from projected spending on Medicaid.In place of the open-ended federal contribution to Medicaid, Mr. Trump would give states “market-based health care grants” — lump sums of federal money or per capita allotments — totaling $1.2 trillion over 10 years. Congress rejected this idea in 2017 when Republicans proposed it because it would essentially cap Medicaid payments at a fixed level and would not keep pace with rising health care costs.Mr. Trump also proposed new work requirements for working-age adult recipients of food stamps, federal housing support and Medicaid, a move the administration said would reduce spending on those programs by $327 billion over a decade because it would disqualify many who currently receive assistance.Payments to a variety of health care providers would also be cut. Medicare payments to hospitals for unpaid bills and uncompensated care would be reduced by $136 billion over 10 years. Mr. Trump would cut projected Medicare payments to hospital outpatient departments by $131 billion over 10 years.In addition, the budget squeezes more than $100 billion over 10 years from Medicare payments to nursing homes and home health agencies that care for Medicare patients who have left the hospital.The president offers a suite of proposals to lower prescription drug prices, with federal savings estimated at $69 billion over 10 years. The changes to the drug program may have the effect of increasing premiums for Americans who rely on Medicare, but they would also, for the first time, limit the amount that seniors with very expensive drugs could be asked to pay each year. Some of the plans resemble proposals unsuccessfully offered by President Barack Obama.And Mr. Trump proposed spending $26 billion less on Social Security programs, the federal retirement program, including a $10 billion cut to the Social Security Disability Insurance program, which provides benefits to disabled workers. Those cuts would be achieved in various ways, including more aggressively policing fraud in the program.The largest reductions would come from spending on discretionary domestic programs, outside of the military, which would be cut by $1.1 trillion over the course of a decade.Those cuts would not be across the board but would come from federal agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency, which Mr. Trump once promised he would reduce to “little tidbits.” The budget proposes cutting the E.P.A.’s funding by 31 percent.Significant reductions are also requested at other agencies responsible for the United States’ energy and environmental policies, including a 70 percent cut in renewable energy research and the elimination of climate science programs across an array of agencies.Here’s how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.The administration requested $31.7 billion for the Energy Department, an 11 percent drop from current funding. That includes about $696 million for the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, which provides hundreds of millions of dollars in grants each year for research into electric vehicles, battery storage and building efficiency.It targeted the Interior Department for a 14 percent decrease, dropping its overall budget to $12.5 billion.While Congress is unlikely to accept most of the changes, they underscore the Trump administration’s commitment to unraveling Obama-era environmental regulations — particularly those addressing climate change — and to prioritizing the development of fossil fuel resources.At the E.P.A., the administration aims to cut a $66 million collection of voluntary climate-change-related partnerships known as the Atmospheric Protection Program that, among other things, helps businesses and local governments track planet-warming greenhouse gas emissions. It also zeros out $19 million that had been devoted to scientific research on climate change. Under a line item called “prioritize robust science,” the agency proposes a cut to $263 million from $481 million.For the third year in a row, Mr. Trump’s budget would also cut funding for the Education Department, this time by 10 percent. Congress has repeatedly rejected efforts to reduce the department’s spending — lawmakers instead increased funding for the department last year — but an Education Department official said this year’s request reflected the “desire to have some fiscal discipline and address some higher priority needs.”The budget seeks to cut more than two dozen programs, including a popular after-school program for many low-income students. It would eliminate higher-education programs, like the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program and subsidized federal Stafford loans, and reduce work-study funding as officials tweak the program to offer more career-oriented jobs for low-income students.The budget also requests $700 million for school safety initiatives being coordinated by several agencies, including $200 million for the Education Department. The funding would help schools finance emergency operation plans, counseling and behavioral health programs. There are no requirements for firearms, the department said. A $1 billion federal grant program that school districts looked to tap last year for firearms would be eliminated.A few domestic spending programs would see increases, if Mr. Trump’s budget were to become law. Those include efforts to reduce opioid addiction, as well as a 10 percent increase in health care spending for veterans. Mr. Trump will also propose a new voucher program for education, $200 billion in infrastructure spending and efforts to reduce the cost of prescription drugs.The budget would not balance for 15 years, breaking Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign promise to pay off the entire national debt within eight years. Mr. Trump’s first budget proposed balancing revenue and spending in 10 years. The budget released on Monday forecasts trillion-dollar deficits for four straight years, starting in 2019. Those are largely the result of Mr. Trump’s tax cut, which has been financed through increased government borrowing.Budget details released by White House officials highlight several areas of conflict between Democrats and Mr. Trump, starting with immigration enforcement. Along with renewing the wall funding fight that led to a record government shutdown late last year, Mr. Trump is asking for more personnel at Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement and for a policy change meant to end so-called sanctuary cities, which do not hand over undocumented immigrants to federal officials when they are arrested in local crimes.“This budget is a recipe for American decline,” said Representative John Yarmuth, Democrat of Kentucky and the chairman of the House Budget Committee. “It’s laughable that this budget is subtitled ‘Promises Kept,’ because in fact there are a lot of promises that have been violated in this budget.”“This is a budget that we will not take seriously when we are working on our budget and spending priorities for 2020,” he said.Disapproval from Democratic presidential candidates was just as blunt. “This is a budget for the military industrial complex, for corporate C.E.O.s, for Wall Street and for the billionaire class,” Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, said in a statement. “It is dead on arrival.”Even some prominent Republicans greeted the president’s request somewhat coolly because it did not go far enough to reduce the growing national debt.Representative Steve Womack, Republican of Arkansas and the ranking member on the Budget Committee, noted that only by cutting mandatory spending could the federal government seriously reduce deficits and debt.“President Trump’s budget takes steps in the right direction, but there is still much work to do,” Mr. Womack said in a statement.Administration officials fanned out to defend the budget. Russ Vought, the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, blamed Democrats and Congress for the ballooning deficit, even though Democrats have not controlled Congress for years.“We do have large deficits. That’s why we’re here transparently saying that we have a problem as a country,” he said. “It takes a long time to get out of that mess.”An earlier version of this article misstated the name of an immigration law enforcement agency. It is Immigration and Customs Enforcement, not Customs and Immigration Enforcement.Reporting was contributed by Robert Pear, Erica L. Green, Lisa Friedman, Margot Sanger-Katz and Emily Cochrane.AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Jared DiamondFALTER Has the Human Game Begun to Play Itself Out? By Bill McKibben“Falter,” the environmentalist Bill McKibben’s latest book about threats to the planet, combines fear of bad outcomes with hope for good outcomes. His opening pages set the stage. “This volume is bleak,” he writes, elaborating a few paragraphs later: “I think we’re uniquely ill prepared to cope with the emerging challenges. So far, we’re not coping with them. Still, there is one sense in which I am less grim than in my younger days. This book ends with the conviction that resistance to these dangers is at least possible.”McKibben’s worst fear is summarized in his subtitle: “Has the Human Game Begun to Play Itself Out?” In the first half of the book, he explains the present dangers to civilization, which include the risk of nuclear war and multiple hazards associated with climate change: increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide, threats to food production, rising sea levels, and ocean warming and acidification. While these dangers have been widely discussed, McKibben provides a fresh perspective with surprising examples and an engaging writing style. What could be more familiar, cheap and simple than asphalt roof tiles? But McKibben explains how their manufacture and distribution depend on multiple big systems — undersea and desert oil drilling, limestone and sand mining, fiberglass fabrication, pipelines, refineries, rail lines, truck routes, building supply stores, etc. — all now at increasing risk because of their scale, complexity and susceptibility to disruption.The middle part of the book discusses forces opposing solutions to the problems laid out in the first part — motivated variously by self-interest, grim realities, power, ideals and views about the proper role of government. These forces include Exxon, poverty, inequality, Ayn Rand, the Koch brothers, other very rich Americans, President Trump and Silicon Valley.[ This book was one of our most anticipated titles of April. See the full list.]Some people hope that world problems will be solved by advanced new technologies, especially artificial intelligence and genetic engineering, along with devices geared to expanding our life spans and allowing us to colonize space. Considering each such technology in turn, McKibben explains his skepticism about its hoped-for benefits, and his concerns about potential undesirable side effects.Finally, in the book’s last section, McKibben offers his reasons for hope. Foremost among these are solar panels, which are making cheap renewable energy available around the world, and nonviolent movements, whose successful practitioners against entrenched, well-armed oppositions have included Gandhi, Martin Luther King Jr., Earth Day demonstrators and McKibben’s own group, 350.org.I share McKibben’s views about these environmental problems. The practical question we face has to do with tactics: How do we strike a balance between fear and hope, and adjust our tactics to best reach a diverse target audience?As Yogi Berra noted, it’s tough to make predictions, especially about the future. It depends not just on measurable present trends but also on unforeseeable decisions. Five years ago, I would never have predicted the public’s now-widespread recognition of climate change and its human causes (a view not yet shared by enough politicians).McKibben’s book is much more about grounds for fear, which take up some 18 chapters, than about grounds for hope, which take up five. Fear will motivate some people who are currently undecided, and increase the motivation of others already convinced. But in my experience most people need a strong dose of hope to be spurred to action. Why waste effort on a hopeless cause? One group that has learned this lesson is the cancer lobby, which succeeds at raising funds for research by stressing cures that may be just around the corner more than the grim statistics of the disease’s ongoing toll.In fact, there are reasons for hope besides those McKibben discusses. One is the change in policies of some powerful multinational corporations. I can already hear the horrified screams of many of my environmentalist friends as I say this. However, I’ve been on the boards of two of the most effective international environmental organizations, World Wildlife Fund and Conservation International, both of which are heavily involved with big, powerful corporations. I acknowledge that those corporations do some very bad things. But they also do some very good things on a large scale that their power makes them uniquely capable of doing. For example, Walmart has quietly been making efforts to manage its supply chain, its wastes and its truck fleet sustainably — partly, but only partly, because it discovered that it can save money by doing so.You may already have closed your ears because of the bad things you know that even the best big companies also do. Listen, you extraterrestrial visitors from the Andromeda Galaxy, where companies and androids are either purely good or purely bad. Alas, here on Planet Earth, good and bad are mixed together; we don’t have companies that are purely good. If environmentalists refuse to engage with big companies, in order to push them to do more good things and fewer bad ones, we could well end up in McKibben’s worst-case scenario: human extinction.Another reason I feel hopeful has to do with the success of many recent supranational agreements — bilateral agreements between nations, regional agreements and world agreements. Those agreements have addressed difficult issues and required negotiations between nations that hate and fight each other. But agreements have nevertheless succeeded in eliminating rinderpest and smallpox, delineating near-shore economic zones in the oceans, reducing chlorofluorocarbon damage to the ozone layer, setting standards for oil tanker pollution and establishing a framework for seabed mining with shared royalties. Those successes give me hope that we may similarly resolve other difficult international problems, including climate change.My other concern about tactics has to do with the diverse audiences to which environmentalists like McKibben and me must address our books. It’s not enough for us to write for those who are already sympathetic or convinced. We also have to write for those who are skeptical or hostile. If we give up on the many rich, powerful, smart people who are skeptical of environmental threats, again we are doomed to McKibben’s worst-case scenario.To convince a skeptic requires different approaches from those that work to reinforce the convictions of someone already converted. I witnessed this recently when I was with an environmentalist friend. We ran into another friend of mine who is rich, powerful, smart — and politically conservative. I introduced my two friends. My conservative friend asked my environmentalist friend what she did, and she answered, “I run U.C.L.A.’s sustainability program.” My conservative friend replied, “What’s that?,” the skepticism evident in his voice.My environmentalist friend responded in a way that my conservative friend could understand: “That means running things so that your children and grandchildren will be living in a rich and thriving world.” She went on to describe how U.C.L.A., by combining its heating, cooling and power plants, reduced its greenhouse gas emissions and saved money. The skepticism disappeared from my friend’s voice; he was ready to hear more.It will take many different voices to persuade the world’s diverse citizens and corporations to collaborate on solving the world’s biggest problems. McKibben’s voice has been an influential one. My hope is that his new book will strengthen the motivation of those already sympathetic to his views. My fear is that it won’t convince many who remain hostile to them. I hope that my first prediction proves right, and that my second proves wrong.Jared Diamond’s latest book, “Upheaval: Turning Points for Nations in Crisis,” will be published in May.FALTER Has the Human Game Begun to Play Itself Out? By Bill McKibben 291 pp. Henry Holt & Company. $28.AdvertisementSupported byBy Hiroko TabuchiWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.JOHNSON COUNTY, Ind. — The children fell ill, one by one, with cancers that few families in this suburban Indianapolis community had ever heard of. An avid swimmer struck down by glioblastoma, which grew a tumor in her brain. Four children with Ewing’s sarcoma, a rare bone cancer. Fifteen children with acute lymphocytic leukemia, including three cases diagnosed in the past year.At first, families put the illnesses down to misfortune. But as cases mounted, parents started to ask: Could it be something in the air or water?Their questions led them to an old industrial site in Franklin, the Johnson County seat, that the federal government had ordered cleaned up decades ago. Recent tests have identified a carcinogenic plume spreading underground, releasing vapors into homes.Now, families in a county that voted overwhelmingly for President Trump are making demands of his administration that collide directly with one of his main agendas: the rolling back of health and environmental regulations.On Wednesday, a group representing dozens of concerned parents called for a federal investigation by the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Inspector General — the same watchdog that examined the government’s slow response to the water crisis in Flint, Mich. — into why Franklin’s toxic plume of trichloroethylene, or TCE, persists.The group accuses the E.P.A. of “serious mismanagement” and “significant delays” at the site, even after the dangers became apparent this summer, according to a letter the group said it sent to the E.P.A.’s Office of the Inspector General.But the parents’ demands also reach well beyond immediate concerns about the chemicals under their feet. Families across the political spectrum have also spoken out against the Trump administration’s drive to weaken restrictions on TCE, a colorless fluid with a subtle, sweet odor used by as many as four-fifths of the nation’s 65,000 dry cleaners, as well as about 2,200 factories and other facilities. Decades ago, it was used at the Franklin site.Twice last year, parents from Johnson County traveled to Washington to urge the administration to stick with stronger controls.“We are done begging,” said Kari Rhinehart, the mother of Emma Grace Findley, the 13-year-old swimmer who developed brain cancer and died in 2014. “We are demanding the E.P.A. finish what it started and place these restrictions on TCE and other dangerous toxins.”The E.P.A. confirmed that the chemicals were present near the Franklin site and said that fewer than 10 of 37 homes it had tested had potential air quality issues. The agency said its testing was continuing and that, if necessary, homes would be fitted with devices to clean the air. Declaring TCE “carcinogenic to humans by all routes of exposure,” the Obama administration had sought to restrict two of its riskiest uses, as a stain remover and as a degreaser, and had marked it for further review, potentially to ban the chemical altogether. It had also moved to strengthen cleanup rules for hundreds of sites nationwide believed to be contaminated. But at the urging of industry groups, the Trump administration has stalled some of those moves. In 2017 it indefinitely postponed the proposed bans on risky uses, leaving as many as 178,000 workers potentially exposed. It also scaled back a broad review of TCE and other chemicals so that it would exclude from its calculations possible exposure from groundwater and other forms of contamination — the problems present in Franklin. In Johnson County, a parents’ group co-founded by Mrs. Rhinehart, If It Was Your Child, has traced at least 58 childhood cancer cases since 2008. At 21.7 cases of pediatric cancer per 100,000 children, Johnson County’s rate puts it in the 80th percentile among counties nationwide, according to data for 2011-2015 from the National Cancer Institute. Both the national and Indiana average are fewer than 18 pediatric cancers per 100,000 children. “You don’t expect to see so many cancers in a relatively small community,” said Dr. Paolo Boffetta, professor in environmental medicine and public health at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York. Even so, he stressed that there was little research linking childhood cancers to TCE. “This doesn’t mean an association doesn’t exist,” he said. “But studies have not been able to confirm it.” Motria Caudill, a scientist at the federal Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, which investigates environmental hazards, said at a community meeting in Franklin in November that it was still too early to draw conclusions. Her agency was still working with others, she said, “just to see what is going on.” The TCE contamination has been traced to a former factory that, for years, discharged industrial wastewater into a municipal sewer. Amphenol, an electronics maker based in Wallingford, Conn., became responsible for the cleanup after acquiring the site, though it no longer owns the property.In June, tests by an environmental group, Edison Wetlands Association, working with parents, detected the chemical in the air at two homes and in outdoor air near the site. The findings prompted more tests by local and state government officials, including one by Franklin that found levels more than 250 times state limits around a sewer near the homes. In November, the E.P.A. identified a plume of contamination stretching beyond the site toward nearby homes.Joseph Bianchi, an Amphenol spokesman, said the company was working “to help ensure the well-being of residents,” and the E.P.A. has promised to team up with the company on a cleanup plan. But at the November community meeting, patience wore thin. “When will this cleanup be done and gone,” asked Sonya Hallett, a local philanthropy consultant and mother of one, “and not hazardous to people who are living around it?”The state investigators who descended on Jennifer Clark’s house in October drilled into her basement floor. They sought signs that chemicals in the ground were turning into a vapor and rising into her home, a phenomenon known as “vapor intrusion.”Her daughter Chelsea learned when she was 12 that she had acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. After chemotherapy, Chelsea, now 18, is in remission; she dreams of working in the beauty industry.But over the summer, the Clarks received daunting news. Tests at their home on behalf of the Franklin parents’ group detected TCE levels more than 18 times federal limits. Testing is tricky. Results can be affected by the weather or even by doors left open, said Kelly Pennell, associate director of the federally funded Superfund Research Center at the University of Kentucky. Indeed, later tests showed lower levels in the house. Still, the Clarks remain worried. Their youngest daughter is now 12. “This is our forever home right here, where the kids are going to come back with the grandkids,” Mrs. Clark said. They live about a mile and a half from the former industrial site in Franklin, now a patch of grass bordered by old railroad tracks to the north and neat rows of homes to the south.Amphenol agreed to a cleanup in 1990, installing a “pump and treat” system that was supposed to control the contamination. For decades Amphenol pumped out groundwater, but contamination remained. The technology’s apparent ineffectiveness raises questions about hundreds of other sites using it, said Shannon Lisa, program director at Edison Wetlands.“How many other communities across the United States are facing these very same issues?” she said.Two girls lived, several years apart, in the same Franklin apartment about a mile from the toxic site. Both developed cancer, one at age 8 and the other at 14.“You can’t go anywhere, or do anything, without meeting someone who’s been affected,” said Angela Brennan, whose daughter, Karley, was one of those girls. In 2012, the family learned that Karley had cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, a rare cancer affecting the skin. Later that year, 14-year-old Madison Newton was told that she had an aggressive form of pilocytic astrocytoma, which causes tumors in the brain and spinal cord.Karley, who turns 15 this week, is in remission. Madison died in 2015. And across Franklin, If It Was Your Child yard signs dot the city, where a local TV station, WTHR Channel 13, is doggedly tracking the concerns. There are conflicting views in Johnson County of the administration’s environmental rollbacks. There is talk that the federal government should get out of people’s lives, even as local officials have called on the E.P.A. to take over the response to the contamination. “When it comes to public health, we can go against party lines. And I don’t agree with trying to roll back the E.P.A.’s role,” said Steve Barnett, Franklin’s mayor and a Republican. “Back in the day, there weren’t any rules. That’s why there was so much contamination,” he said. Many members of If It Was Your Child in the Franklin area play down the politics, noting that both parties have let the cleanup fall by the wayside. Nevertheless, their demands come at a time when the Trump administration has weakened the very rules that could prevent another Franklin.“We should not have to fight Republicans or Democrats to save our children. It’s not a political fight for us,” said Stacie Davidson, a Trump voter who co-founded the parents’ group with Mrs. Rhinehart (who didn’t vote for Mr. Trump). Mrs. Davidson said, “His loosening of E.P.A. regulations, it’s infuriating.” She added, “We’re ruining the environment for money.”Mrs. Davidson learned in 2014 that her stepson, Zane, who was 10 at the time, had a rare form of leukemia. He is now in remission. She has traveled to Washington to speak in favor of stronger TCE regulations. “What we’re fighting for is seemingly being undone right now,” she said.Still, she said, she did not regret her vote. “Trump’s a businessman. There are great things he can do for our country. But he’s used to building high rises for money,” she said. “He’s not as environmentally savvy. Our hope is that he surrounds himself with people who are more knowledgeable.”Despite the emergence of alternatives to TCE, the Trump administration has stalled action on restricting its use. “There have been greener alternatives to TCE for years,” said Tom Forsythe, an executive vice president at Kyzen, a Tennessee cleaning-materials company, who joined E.P.A. officials in a conference call in August 2017 to lay out other options.But a few months later, in October, when E.P.A. officials visited the Integer medical devices factory in Minneapolis, Minn., the agency received a different message. “According to Integer, there are no effective alternatives,” read an E.P.A. memo about the visit, which was arranged by a chemicals group, the Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance. Dry cleaners have also lobbied against a tightening of protections, arguing among other things that substitutes could harm clothing.“Yes, we have spoken to E.P.A. about our desire not to have TCE banned — as is our right of free speech,” said Faye Graul, the chemical group’s executive director. TCE “is used in tightly controlled industrial settings,” she said, “with controls in place so that no workers are harmed.”Johnson County bills itself as the festival county. In December, it hosted a holiday parade and a drive-through Nativity with live actors. And the economy is strong. A technology park measuring nearly a million square feet is soon opening in Franklin.“I see good things that Trump has done,” said Mr. Barnett, the mayor, emphasizing his town’s future. “The economy’s good. There’s been a lot of investment into our city.” Recently, though, Mrs. Rhinehart has been thinking of the past. Four Christmases ago, her daughter Emma Grace suffered two severe seizures. “She said, ‘Mommy, something’s not right,’ and I knew we weren’t going to get much more time,” Mrs. Rhinehart said, recalling their final conversation. “I gave her some medication and she drifted off to sleep.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — President Donald Trump knew WikiLeaks until he didn't.With his government seeking to prosecute WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, Trump is drawing a blank on a hacking organization he praised to the rafters during the 2016 campaign because of the discomfort it caused his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.It was among a number of factual faux pas and flips in his rhetoric over the past week.A few months after asserting a need for legal immigrants, Trump declared the country "full" and he also seemed to change the grounds upon which he is refusing to release his taxes: It's not because he can't, but because he doesn't want to.And with the release of more of the special counsel's report imminent, Trump kept up his refrain that Robert Mueller exonerated him despite Mueller's explicit statement that he did not.A review:WIKILEAKSTRUMP, asked if he still "loves" WikiLeaks: "I know nothing about WikiLeaks. It's not my thing." — remarks Thursday with South Korea's president.THE FACTS: WikiLeaks was very much Trump's thing in the final weeks of the 2016 campaign, when candidate Trump showered praise on the anti-secrecy organization night after night.On the same October day that the "Access Hollywood" tape emerged, revealing that Trump had bragged in 2005 about groping women, WikiLeaks began releasing damaging emails from Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta. Trump and his allies seized on the dumps and weaponized them."WikiLeaks, I love WikiLeaks," Trump said in Pennsylvania."This WikiLeaks is like a treasure trove," Trump said in Michigan."Boy, I love reading WikiLeaks," Trump said in Ohio.All told, Trump extolled WikiLeaks more than 100 times, and a poster of Assange hung backstage at the Republican's debate war room. At no point from a rally stage did Trump express any misgivings about how WikiLeaks obtained the emails from the Clinton campaign or about the accusations of stealing sensitive U.S. government information, which led to the charges against Assange on Thursday. The U.S. is seeking Assange's extradition from Britain.___TAX RETURNSTRUMP: "As you know, I got elected last time with this same issue. ... I would love to give them, but I'm not going to do it while I'm under audit." — remarks Wednesday to reporters at the White House.THE FACTS: Nothing's preventing Trump from releasing his tax returns.Being under audit is no legal bar to anyone releasing his or her returns.Asked repeatedly at a House hearing Tuesday whether any regulation prohibited a taxpayer from disclosing returns when under audit, IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig responded "no."Trump declined to provide his tax information as a candidate in 2016 and as president, something party nominees have traditionally done in the name of the transparency. By withholding his tax returns, Trump has not followed the standard followed by presidents since Richard Nixon started the practice in 1969. During the campaign, Trump said he wanted to release his returns but because he was under a routine audit, "I can't."After the November midterm elections, Trump claimed at a news conference that the filings are too complex for people to understand.___JOB APPROVALTRUMP, tweeting a Fox Business Network graphic showing his "soaring approval" at 55% overall: "Great news! #MAGA" — tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: The graphic on the Georgetown University poll was incorrect: The poll found 55% disapproval of Trump's performance, not approval. Fox Business issued an on-air correction but Trump's tweet remains.___CLIMATE CHANGETRUMP: "We withdrew the United States from the one-sided Paris climate accord, where you don't do any more drilling for oil and gas. That was going to cost us a lot of money. No more oil and gas with the Paris accord. That's good for Paris, but that's not good for us. Right?" — remarks Wednesday at a ceremony for the signing of executive orders meant to accelerate pipeline construction.THE FACTS: Wrong. The Paris accord does not ban any form of energy development. It does not impose emission caps on signatory countries. The accord is a set of voluntary targets determined by individual nations.___RUSSIA INVESTIGATIONTRUMP: "I've been totally exonerated. No collusion. No obstruction." — remarks Wednesday at the White House.TRUMP: "I'm not concerned about anything, because frankly there was no collusion and there was no obstruction." — remarks Thursday with South Korea's president.THE FACTS: Attorney General William Barr's four-page summary of Mueller's nearly 400-page report did not "totally" exonerate Trump. Mueller specifically states in the report, as quoted by Barr: "While this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him."The summary of principal conclusions by Barr notes Mueller did not "draw a conclusion — one way or the other — as to whether the examined conduct constituted obstruction," but rather set out evidence for both sides, leaving the question unanswered of whether Trump obstructed justice. Barr said ultimately he decided as attorney general that the evidence developed by Mueller was "not sufficient" to establish, for the purposes of prosecution, that Trump committed obstruction.In Senate testimony Wednesday, Barr acknowledged that Mueller did not ask him to draw a conclusion on the obstruction question, nor did he know whether Mueller agreed with him. Barr said he would be able to explain more fully after releasing a public version of Mueller's report in coming days.___IMMIGRATIONTRUMP: "Mexico must apprehend all illegals and not let them make the long march up to the United States, or we will have no other choice than to Close the Border and/or institute Tariffs. Our Country is FULL!" — tweet Sunday.THE FACTS: Despite the overwhelmed southern border, there's plenty of room in the United States. Dozens of countries have greater population density. It's only full in terms of the people Trump doesn't want.His claim of a U.S. with no vacancies for more immigrants is at odds with his own statement two months ago that encouraged "the largest" influx of legal immigrants ever. It also belies a U.S. reality of aging baby boomers and falling birth rates, which make immigrants increasingly important to sustain a level of population growth for the U.S. economy to keep expanding.The nation's population growth is at its lowest since 1937, with the 18-and-under population declining both nationally and in 29 states, according to William H. Frey of the Brookings Institution. Economists say that restricting immigration would probably weaken economic growth. A shrinking labor force could also harm the health and stability of safety net programs such as Social Security and Medicare.Trump himself seemed to acknowledge the realities during his State of the Union address in February, declaring, "I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally." He's now describing a U.S. bursting at the seams, unable to take any immigrants, including those seeking legal asylum.Immigrants as a whole make up a greater percentage of the total U.S. population than they did back in 1970, having grown from less than 5 percent of the population to more than 13 percent now. In 2030, it's projected that immigrants will become the primary driver for U.S. population growth, overtaking U.S. births.___TRUMP on separating migrant children from their parents when caught crossing into the U.S. illegally: "I'm the one that stopped it. President Obama had child separation." — remarks to reporters Tuesday.THE FACTS: No, he's the one who started it on a broad scale. He instituted a "zero tolerance" policy aimed at criminally prosecuting all adults caught crossing into the U.S. illegally. That meant detention for adults and the removal of their children while their parents were in custody. During the Obama administration and the early Trump administration, such family separations were the exception. They became the rule under his policy. He suspended the practice in June because of a public uproar.___TRUMP on the family separations: "President Obama had the law. We changed the law, and I think the press should accurately report it but of course they won't." — remarks to reporters Tuesday.THE FACTS: This is false. Trump did not achieve any change in the law.Trump's zero-tolerance policy was of his own making. His administration is operating under the same immigration laws as Obama's.During the Obama administration and before Trump's zero-tolerance policy was introduced, migrant families caught illegally entering the U.S. were usually referred for civil deportation proceedings, not requiring separation, unless they were known to have a criminal record. Then and now, immigration officials may take a child from a parent in certain cases, such as serious criminal charges against a parent, concerns over the health and welfare of a child or medical concerns.___ENERGY and ENVIRONMENTTRUMP: "We have the cleanest air and water, they say, in the world. We are the best."— remarks Wednesday at the signing of orders on pipelines.THE FACTS: Not true about air.U.S. drinking water is among the best by one leading measure.Trump's own Environmental Protection Agency data show that in 2017, among 35 major U.S. cities, there were 729 cases of "unhealthy days for ozone and fine particle pollution." That's up 22 percent from 2014 and the worst year since 2012. Findings for 2018 are incomplete.The State of Global Air 2019 report by the Health Effects Institute rated the U.S. as having the eighth cleanest air for particle pollution — which kills 85,000 Americans each year — behind Canada, Scandinavian countries and others.The U.S. ranks poorly on smog pollution, which kills 24,000 Americans per year. On a scale from the cleanest to the dirtiest, the U.S. is at 123 out of 195 countries measured.On water, Yale University's global Environmental Performance Index finds 10 countries tied for the cleanest drinking water, the U.S. among them. On environmental quality overall, the U.S. was 27th, behind a variety of European countries, Canada, Japan, Australia and more. Switzerland was No. 1.___TRUMP: "With the help of the incredible workers in this room, the United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world, anywhere on the planet. Not even close. Made a lot of progress in the last two and a half years, haven't we? Huh? Took down a lot of barriers." — signing ceremony.THE FACTS: As he's done many times before, Trump is crediting himself with things that happened under Obama.Here's what the government's U.S. Energy Information Administration says: "The United States has been the world's top producer of natural gas since 2009, when U.S. natural gas production surpassed that of Russia, and the world's top producer of petroleum hydrocarbons since 2013, when U.S. production exceeded Saudi Arabia's."As for crude oil specifically, the information agency says the U.S. became the world's top crude oil producer last year. That is largely attributed to the shale oil boom that began during the Obama administration, which has sent production from the Permian Basin in the southwest surging.___TRUMP: "Under this administration, we have ended the war on American energy like never before." — signing ceremony.THE FACTS: It wasn't much of a war. U.S. petroleum and natural gas production has increased by nearly 60% since 2008, according to the Energy Information Administration, achieving pre-eminence during the Obama administration. That said, the Trump administration is more closely aligned with fossil fuel interests as it works to restrain environmental obstacles and the power of states to stand in the way of pipelines and other energy development.___Associated Press writers Jonathan Lemire, Ellen Knickmeyer, Seth Borenstein and Mary Clare Jalonick in Washington and Nomaan Merchant in Houston contributed to this report.AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa FriedmanWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — When Andrew Wheeler, President Trump’s nominee to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, testified before Senators on Wednesday at his confirmation hearing, he found himself walking a tightrope on the issue of climate change.One of the most pointed moments came shortly after he told senators that climate change was not “the greatest crisis” facing our planet. Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, then asked Mr. Wheeler, a former coal-industry lobbyist, to rate his level of concern on a scale of one to 10. After a pause, Mr. Wheeler said, “about eight or nine.”“Really?” Mr. Merkley responded.Senator Merkley and other Democrats on the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works took pains to focus in on Mr. Wheeler’s efforts to roll back environmental protections and undo Obama-era regulations designed to fight climate change as indicators that he is unsuitable to lead the E.P.A.President Trump formally nominated Mr. Wheeler last week to lead the agency but he has been on the job in an acting capacity since his predecessor, Scott Pruitt, resigned in July amid ethics scandals. If Mr. Wheeler is confirmed, a strong likelihood with Republicans holding a 53-to-47 majority in the Senate, he will formally become one of the top soldiers in Mr. Trump’s battle to undo regulations.“There is no more important responsibility than protecting human health and the environment,” Mr. Wheeler told lawmakers. “It is a responsibility I take very seriously.” At the same time, he said, the E.P.A. under his leadership has pushed forward with Mr. Trump’s agenda of deregulation.“Through our deregulatory actions, the Trump Administration has proven that burdensome federal regulations are not necessary to drive environmental progress,” he said.Since July, Mr. Wheeler has replaced of a broad plan to reduce emissions from coal-fired power plants, known as the Clean Power Plan, with weaker rules. He has proposed to relax federal protections for streams and wetlands, ease controls of mercury pollution from coal-fired power plants, and eliminate restrictions on new coal plants, a move that would make it easier to bring more coal power online.Under Mr. Wheeler’s leadership the E.P.A. also has proposed reversing Mr. Obama’s clean car standards, one of the most important federal government tools for reducing planet-warming emissions. The plan also challenges the right of California and other states to set their own, more restrictive standards. Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, chairman of the Environment and Public Works panel, said he expected the committee to vote on Mr. Wheeler’s confirmation in February and, soon after, bring the vote to the Senate floor. But if the hearing itself is any indication, Mr. Wheeler could be in for a rocky tenure. His opening remarks, given as the government entered its 26th day of a partial shutdown, were nearly drowned out by demonstrators shouting “Shut down Wheeler, not the E.P.A.” The protesters were escorted out of the hearing room by Capitol Police officers as Mr. Wheeler began speaking.“Mr. Wheeler is certainly not the ethically bereft embarrassment that Scott Pruitt proved to be,” Senator Tom Carper of Delaware, the top Democrat on the committee, said in his opening remarks. At the same time, he and other lawmakers pressed Mr. Wheeler on the string of regulatory rollbacks as well as his and Mr. Trump’s positions on climate change.“The scientific community has said the threat of climate change is one of the great crises facing our planet,” Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont said. “Do you agree?”Mr. Wheeler said he believed that climate change is occurring, and that humans have an effect. But he told the committee: “I would not call it the greatest crisis, no sir. I would call it a huge issue that has to be addressed globally.”It was after that exchange that he made his remark to Mr. Merkley putting his level of concern at “eight or nine.”Mr. Wheeler was asked several times by Democrats if he would denounce Mr. Trump’s statement that climate change is a “hoax.” Mr. Wheeler responded, “I have not used the hoax word myself.”He said that the planet is warming and that mankind plays a role, making Mr. Wheeler one of the few members of the Trump administration to openly acknowledge the basics of established climate science. But he also said he had not familiarized himself with major scientific reports, including one conducted by 13 United States agencies, that warned rising global emissions are an urgent crisis.He said that the E.P.A. under his leadership was addressing the challenge of rising carbon emissions. Mr. Wheeler repeated the Trump administration’s finding that its plan to revise the Clean Power Plan would still reduce planet-warming emissions by 34 percent below 2005 levels by 2030. However, a Harvard University study published Tuesday disputed that, finding that the Trump administration’s plan would be worse for the planet than doing nothing at all. The study found that greenhouse gas emissions would “rebound” under the new policy by delaying the retirement of coal-fired power plants. Carbon emissions could rise in 18 states by as much as 8.7 percent by 2030, compared to having no carbon policy at all, the study found.Mr. Wheeler pushed back against those numbers, saying, “That is not what the career people at the agency are telling me.” Later in the hearing he said. “I believe we are moving forward on a proactive basis.”He also addressed recent findings that carbon dioxide emissions have spiked in the United States over the past year. According to the findings, by the research firm Rhodium Group, emissions rose 3.4 percent in 2018. That’s the largest uptick in United States emissions in eight years.Mr. Wheeler has frequently pointed to the fact that greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 2.7 percent between 2016 and 2017 as proof that the Trump administration is protecting the environment while deregulating. Yet that dip occurred before Mr. Trump officially took office and it was largely driven by market forces.On Wednesday, Mr. Wheeler said he attributed the recent surge to an exceptionally hot summer and cold winter but said he believed the larger downward trend would continue.By day’s end, the environmental activists who filled the Senate hearing room said nothing had allayed their concerns that Mr. Wheeler would fail to protect clean air and water laws.“I did not hear anything that makes me think anything different about his track record, which is that his actions at E.P.A. so far have been to undermine an scrap and kill protections,” said Molly Rauch, public health policy director at Moms Clean Air Force.Mr. Wheeler won high praise, though, from Republicans for rolling back the so-called Waters of the United States rule, which many farmers opposed on the grounds that it would result in overly burdensome regulations. Senator Barrasso, the committee chairman, said Mr. Wheeler had done an “outstanding” job leading the E.P.A. over the past six months and praised him for “common sense regulatory proposals.”For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBANGKOK — Thai designer Panupong Chansopa saw a business opportunity in millions of vinyl campaign posters destined to become trash after last month's general election, and salvaged hundreds to turn them into colorful tote bags with a message.Most of his designs feature the cropped faces of popular politicians, or eye-catching campaign slogans cut from the posters and sewn together by a seamstress. "This is about a political awakening, not just an environmental effort," Panupong, 28, said of the pent-up desire for political expression after five years of military rule."The junta took power and silenced people, but now people want to speak out and express themselves." It is still uncertain which party could form a government after the March 24 election, the first since a 2014 army coup. Final results may not be clear for weeks.Panupong collected about 400 posters in Bangkok, mostly those of the youth-oriented Future Forward Party, whose leader Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit figures is among his most popular designs.In a friend's house that serves as a makeshift factory, Panupong unrolls a weather-worn poster on the floor, washes it with a sponge and soapy water and then hangs it up to dry. The final product is a rectangular, vertical tote bag in bold colors, with handles so it can be held in the hand or slung over the shoulder. Made from vinyl, the bag is also water-resistant and durable. The bags sell for 750 baht ($23.60) each and are available only while stocks last, Panupong said. He hoped that his brand "Faithai", inspired by a Swiss brand that makes bags from used truck tarps, can spur political debate without the deep divisions of the recent past. "In the past...politics and political parties were seen as irrelevant, if not dangerous and risky to engage with," he said. AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - New Mexico lawmakers on Tuesday introduced a bill to protect federal lands around the Chaco Canyon from drilling and mining, attempting to permanently shield the Native American cultural site from recurring attempts at oil and gas leasing.U.S. Senators Tom Udall and Martin Heinrich and U.S. Representatives Ben Ray Luján and Deb Haaland introduced the Chaco Cultural Heritage Area Protection Act, which would bar any future leasing or development of minerals owned by the U.S. government located within a 10-mile protected radius of the area.The federal Bureau of Land Management had deferred a planned lease sale of around 1,500 acres within 10 miles of the park in February after strong public opposition. It was the third attempt by the administration to offer those lands for leasing."Even as archaeologists are making exciting new discoveries about this region – and even as Tribes and the American public speak out in overwhelming support of protecting this precious landscape – Chaco is being threatened by expanding energy development, including recently proposed leasing inside this long-standing buffer zone," Udall said in a statement.Heinrich questioned Acting Interior Secretary David Bernhardt, whose confirmation vote is expected this week, about the future of Chaco Canyon in his confirmation hearing late last month. Bernhardt did not say if he supported a withdrawal but said he "would like to get out there and see the site for myself.”Heinrich, a member of the Senate energy committee, voted to support Bernhardt's confirmation because he promised to visit the site.The Navajo Nation, as well as the All Pueblo Council of Governors (APCG) backed the legislation, which they said would protect sacred sites from development and environmental destruction.AdvertisementSupported byThat the dam fell was a tragedy. It should not have been a surprise.By The New York TimesOn Jan. 25, a mining dam that sat above Brumadinho, a large town in southeastern Brazil, collapsed and unleashed a tidal wave of waste and mud that engulfed homes, businesses and residents in its path. It killed at least 157 people; 182 are still missing. It was one of the deadliest mining accidents in Brazilian history — a tragedy, but not a surprise, experts told The Times in an investigation into the dam’s collapse. All the elements of a potential catastrophe had been present, and warning signs overlooked, for years.The structure, owned by the giant Brazilian mining company Vale S.A., strained the very definition of “dam” — it was an enormous, bare-bones reservoir of mining waste held back by little more than walls of sand and silt. It had no separate concrete or metal to hold back its contents. Instead, the dam relied on the lake of mud to remain solid enough to contain itself. There are 87 mining dams in Brazil built like the one that failed. And all but four of them have been rated by the government as equally vulnerable, or worse. Even more alarming, at least 27 similarly built dams sit directly uphill from cities or towns, with more than 100,000 people living in especially risky areas if they failed, an estimate by The New York Times found.This type of construction — known as an upstream tailings dam — is one of the oddest structures known to engineering. And unless it is designed, constructed and monitored with great attention to detail, it can also be one of the most terrifying.Dams like the one that failed are, in essence, lakes of thick, semi-hardened mud, consisting of water and the solid byproducts of ore mining, which are known as tailings. Their unique construction makes them vulnerable to a potentially devastating process called liquefaction, when seemingly solid material can abruptly become a murky liquid, flowing downhill.Even a subtle change like an increase in water content — because of especially heavy rains or poor management — can liquefy the mud. It is the world’s largest iron ore miner, founded in 1942. Just this week it evacuated hundreds of people from the area of another dam because of safety concerns. Three years ago, another dam burst in the city of Mariana, just 75 miles away, killing 19 people and causing an environmental catastrophe. That dam was jointly owned by Vale and an Anglo-Australian mining company BHP. After the Mariana collapse,  officials vowed to adopt rigorous safety protocols. That never happened.Brazil’s top prosecutor said Vale should be punished. The Brazilian government said it was ordering inspections at dams around the country. Four days after the Brumadinho dam burst, the police arrested the outside inspectors who had attested to its stability, along with three Vale employees responsible for safety and environmental licensing. A judge later ordered them released.AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders react to the news that many powerful men say they are afraid of contact with women in the workplace, leaving women stranded once again.To the Editor:Re “Citing #MeToo, Davos Elites Express Fears About Mentoring Women” (news article, Jan. 28):I was aghast, but sadly not surprised, to read this article. Powerful men are now afraid of women they might be able to help, so women lose out again.It really isn’t that hard. You keep your hands to yourself; you keep your pants zipped; and you think about what would help your mentee, not what would help you. Mentoring requires the altruism of passing wisdom from one generation to the next. It is amazingly satisfying and rewarding in and of itself because you take a chance at making the world better.Sex really doesn’t have anything to do with it.M. Susan UbbelohdeBerkeley, Calif. The writer is a professor and associate dean for faculty affairs in the College of Environmental Design, University of California, Berkeley. To the Editor:I read with disappointment that a survey taken since the inception of the #MeToo movement revealed that two-thirds of male executives now hesitate to hold one-on-one meetings with women in more junior positions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Coral DavenportWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — The two-week-old shutdown has halted one of the federal government’s most important public health activities, the inspections of chemical factories, power plants, oil refineries, water treatment plants, and thousands of other industrial sites for pollution violations.The Environmental Protection Agency has furloughed most of its roughly 600 pollution inspectors and other workers who monitor compliance with environmental laws. Those scientists, engineers and analysts are responsible for detecting violations that endanger human health, as they did, for example during an August 2018 airborne inspection that found that oil and gas fields in Karnes County, Tex., were leaking illegal levels of chemicals into the atmosphere, in violation of the Clean Air Act.While the inspection personnel represent a relatively small proportion of the E.P.A.’s total of about 15,000 workers, their absence increases the chances that, either by design or by accident, companies might emit illegal levels of contaminants into the air or water without detection, for weeks on end, according to people familiar with the E.P.A. inspections.“There are plants that discharge wastewater into streams and rivers, places that store hazardous chemicals in containers that could leak — we show up and test these places to see if they’re meeting pollution laws,” said Garth Connor, a furloughed E.P.A. inspector based in Philadelphia who has been off the job since Monday. “Now there’s nobody out there to check if they’re complying.” Mr. Connor inspects for air and water pollution and hazardous waste disposal at sites throughout the Mid-Atlantic.The inspectors “are the cops on the beat,” Cynthia Giles, who headed the E.P.A. enforcement division during the Obama administration, wrote in an email. She noted that, in 2017, E.P.A. workers performed about 11,700 such inspections, averaging to about 225 inspections per week, according to the agency’s records. The numbers suggest that hundreds of such inspections may have already been canceled this year, with the potential for hundreds more to not take place should the shutdown continue for days or weeks more.“Those weeks can never be made up,” Ms. Giles wrote. “In addition to the violations not found and the inspections not done, there is also the impact of no inspectors in the field doing unannounced inspections,” she added, asking: “Will that result in more violations because companies know E.P.A. isn’t watching?”Andrew Wheeler, the acting administrator of the E.P.A., did not respond to an email requesting comment. On Wednesday, President Trump formally nominated Mr. Wheeler, who was confirmed last year as the deputy chief of the agency, to formally take over as the agency head.When on the job, E.P.A. inspectors regularly cite companies for violations that endanger human health. For example, during an April 2016 inspection at a Firestone rubber plant in Sulphur, La., E.P.A. inspectors discovered that the plant was emitting illegal levels of butadiene, a carcinogen, into the community. A telephone message left at the plant was not returned. Some E.P.A. inspections are unannounced. Others take the form of two- and three-week on-site visits. Still other examinations don’t happen on-site: E.P.A. experts sitting in labs or at computers will review documents detailing a plant’s own reported emissions of pollution or wastewater, checking whether legal limits were met or violated. These activities, too, are on pause during the shutdown.Inspectors need to read those reports “and say, ‘no, you can’t do that,’” said Eric Schaeffer, who worked at the E.P.A. on enforcement from 1990 to 2002 and now runs the Environmental Integrity Project, an advocacy group. “Then they follow up and go on-site. But none of that is happening.”Unlike other federal agencies affected by the government shutdown, the E.P.A. continued to operate through the week of Dec. 24, but pollution inspections, along with most of the rest of the work of the agency, had ceased by New Year’s Eve.Mr. Schaeffer recalled the effect on pollution enforcement of the longest government shutdown in history, which ran from Dec. 16, 1995, to Jan. 6, 1996.“That was one of the worst years ever at the E.P.A. in terms of numbers of inspections and enforcement,” he said. He added that the damage to the work of pollution inspections didn’t end completely once the government reopened. “Everything was ground to a halt, bogged down. You can’t just restart at 100 miles per hour. You have to reschedule everything.”Another former E.P.A. official who now lobbies on behalf of industry offered a different view, saying that a shutdown of even a few weeks was unlikely to make much difference in the amount of illegal pollution emitted or detected.“What you have is a delay,” said the former official, Jeffrey Holmstead, who served in the E.P.A. during both Bush administrations and now works for some of the largest coal companies and electric utilities in the country. “I don’t think it’s true that all of a sudden, because E.P.A.’s inspectors are not there, that most people will take advantage of that,” he said. “There may be a few folks who believe they can get away with more, but I don’t think that’s the biggest issue.”Among Mr. Holmstead’s clients are several companies that have been cited for violations by the E.P.A., including the electric utility Southern Company, which has had 52 sites with violations over the past five years, including 23 sites with current violations, according to E.P.A.’s enforcement database. An email sent to a Southern Company spokesman requesting comment on the violations was not answered. Another of Mr. Holmstead’s clients, the electric utility, Ameren, owns 23 sites that have been cited for pollution violations over the past five years. A telephone message left with an Ameren spokeswoman was not returned.In many years, about 10 to 20 percent of the E.P.A.’s pollution inspections turn up significant violations, according to the agency’s data.Most operators “really are doing a good job,” said Adam Kushner, a former top legal official at the E.P.A. “But there’s a 1 percent that are bad actors, who will continue to do what they’re going to do, unless inspectors find them. And then there are sites where the operator just may not have identified the problem, and they’re putting bad stuff out into the air without knowing it.”Angela McFadden, a furloughed E.P.A. environmental engineer who oversees state permits for pollution discharge and has worked as an on-site inspector dealing with clean water violations, said she “always” found violations during her time as an inspector.For example, she said, in inspecting municipal water systems in rural areas she frequently found that cities and towns over-chlorinated or under-chlorinated their water — not a legal violation, but a potentially harmful situation that is easily corrected when identified by an inspector. Ms. McFadden recalled a more frightening inspection she once performed in Pennsylvania that found excessive nitrate levels in a municipal water supply. Nitrates can sap oxygen from the blood and, when found in high levels in drinking water, are linked to “blue baby syndrome,” in which infants struggle to deliver enough oxygen to their bodies.“Right now, E.P.A. is not monitoring any of that,” Ms. McFadden said. “Things are falling through the cracks.”For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.A picture caption with an earlier version of this article twice misidentified the owner of the E.D. Edwards power station in Bartonville, Ill. The station is owned by Vistra Energy, not Ameren Corp and not Dynegy Inc. (Ameren sold the plant to Dynegy in 2013. Dynegy folded into Vistra in 2018.) The picture has been removed.An earlier version of this article described incorrectly Angela McFadden's role at the Environmental Protection Agency. She is an environmental engineer who works for an agency program that oversees state-issued permits for the discharge of pollution in rivers and streams. Though she has worked as an on-site inspector dealing with clean water violations, she is not an inspector of water sites.The article also misquoted Ms. McFadden in her comments about her work at the E.P.A. While Ms. McFadden said, “I always find violations,” she did not go on to say, “even if it’s not things that are illegal.”China DailyAdvertisementShareThe number of climbers will be limited, the authorities in Tibet said.It has been nearly a century since the first recorded efforts to reach the summit of the world’s highest peak, Qomolangma, which is known in the West as Mount Everest.The first successful ascent of the mountain, from the South Face in Nepal, was made by a British expeditionary team in 1953.The desire to scale Qomolangma never dies. However, human activities have had a negative effect in the area in recent decades.Authorities in the Tibet autonomous region have been striving to tackle the problem of waste left at high altitudes.They announced recently that to reduce the environmental impact on Qomolangma, climbers will be allowed to enter the region only in the spring, and their number will be limited to about 300 every year, including mountaineers, guides and support teams.To protect the environment, since December travelers have been banned from all areas above the Rongpo Monastery, which lies at an altitude of 16,896 feet. But those with climbing permits are allowed to enter base camp in Tibet at 17,060 feet.Last year, the Tibet Mountaineering Association welcomed 762 overseas visitors to climb the mountain, including 372 guides and logistics teams.Authorities have planned to use funds collected from an annual service fee to carry out regular environmental protection work on Qomolangma.The regional sports bureau has drafted a regulation aimed at improving garbage management on the mountain, and hopes it will take effect soon.Sonam, secretary of the Tibet Mountaineering Association, who only has one name, said, “Our focus is for the mountain to be climbed in a scientific and green way, ensuring safety.”He said that awareness in China of environmentally protecting Qomolangma dates to the 1990s, both from the government and individuals.“Compared with before, people－including mountaineers and local residents－are more aware of the importance of environmental protection. There are now many detailed measures to tackle waste in high-altitude areas of Qomolangma,” Sonam said.In Tibet, all mountaineers, guides and support staff members of climbing teams must each remove 8 kilograms of waste to the campsite, which lies at 21,325 feet.Sonam said it takes two days for yaks to carry the waste from the campsite to base camp. This means a round trip of about four days. Within the area, there are 10 designated dump sites for people to place their waste, which are attended to every day by sanitation workers.When garbage is transported to base camp, domestic waste is then taken by workers to a refuse processing plant. Waste related to mountaineering, such as used oxygen cylinders, tents and ropes, is recycled.“When there are human activities, including mountaineering, there is garbage. As people only eat high-energy food in high-altitude areas, human waste is only a small part of domestic waste,” Sonam said.“Mountaineers conscientiously observe green discipline, and they rarely drop litter on Qomolangma.”Since 2017, local authorities have organized large-scale activities to remove garbage from high-altitude areas on the mountain, including that at dump sites.According to a recent announcement by the authorities, toilets have been set up at the two campsites. Human waste was collected to provide fertilizer.During three large-scale garbage collection operations last year, a total of 8.4 metric tons of household refuse, mountaineering and human waste was disposed of.This year, there will be three such operations during the climbing season from April to early June, each one lasting at least a week. They will be staged at the start, in the middle and at the end of the season.Meanwhile, authorities plan to offer training on environmental protection and related skills annually, to encourage more people to take part in green activities.Sonam said, “It’s challenging to clean up waste at high altitudes, where just a small amount can be a great burden.“Only professionals can enter areas above 21,325 feet. There are situations such as a lack of oxygen, and bad weather. Also, we have to use yaks to transport supplies in some high-altitude areas.”Sonam said the total cost per person to climb Qomolangma is about 400,000 yuan ($59,600) on average. Many charges have risen over the years, such as guides’ wages and transportation fees.This spring, authorities in Tibet plan to remove the remains of climbers on Qomolangma that have lain exposed at an altitude of more than 26,247 feet.They will identify the bodies and contact families. The bodies will then be collected and buried at three sites away from the climbing routes, at above 26,247 feet.The Ministry of Finance has promised to provide 4 million yuan to Tibetan authorities this year to remove climbers’ remains and clean up high-altitude areas.Huang Chunyan, who reached the summit of Qomolangma from the North Face in China on a 54-day mission in 2017, said: “In my view, Qomolangma is very clean. You can hardly see any waste along the climbing route.”She said that a recent online post had used unidentified photos to mislead netizens into thinking that Qomolangma is full of trash.“Mountaineers respect and love nature, and most don’t litter. I carried my own waste down from the mountain. Common garbage includes plastic bags and bottles. I also used special bags to collect my feces.”Huang is planning another trip to the mountain in May to join other volunteers in collecting garbage at altitudes of 17,060 to 21,325 feet.“There are dump sites in the living areas. Our major task is to transport this waste manually and by using yaks. I am able to carry 20 kg at the most,” Huang said.She added that safety matters the most, rather than reaching the summit.At an altitude of 27,887 feet, she was once hit by a small stone falling from above, bruising an eye. She was also shocked that an overseas mountaineer she had chatted with in the morning had died suddenly in the afternoon.Huang also came across the bodies of climbers, and said she hoped that such remains could be buried properly in the future.“When you are climbing, it’s a struggle between whether to give up or stick at it. You need to be strong-willed,” she said.Experienced mountain guide Bao Yifei said it is important to have a good system to transport waste from high altitudes and to introduce regulations for climbers to adhere to.Bao works for the Shanghai company Land Summit, which offers services for mountaineers aiming to conquer the Seven Summits, the highest peaks on each of seven continents. Bao has conquered all of them. The company helps Chinese clients climb Qomolangma from the South Face in Nepal.Bao said that of the Seven Summits, the Vinson Massif in Antarctica has the strictest rules－all human waste must be transported to South America. Mountaineers can only urinate at marked sites, their feces must go in special bags and all garbage must be taken back to base camp.In Nepal, as in China, each climber has to collect and bring back with them 8 kg of waste to base camp. Bao said they have removed garbage including food packages and even oxygen cylinders from mountains, adding that some climbing companies have strict rules for their clients to follow.Bao said it is expensive to climb Qomolangma because material supplies are needed as well as a professional team, including porters, guides and cooks. “The more you spend, the more help you will get. That’s why the cost can vary.”He said the company’s clients have the funds required, are physically strong and have two months’ free time to climb Qomolangma. The most important thing is that they believe conquering the mountain is valuable for them.“To prepare, you need to exercise and climb mountains of different altitudes in advance. In addition to having an experienced team, you should also be aware of the risk of death. Every year, climbers die on the mountain,” he said.Xu LinPalden Nyima contributed to this story.The Green New Deal was introduced as a sweeping resolution to drastically reduce emissions over the next 10 years, but there is disagreement over how viable the plan is.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jackie Snow[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]An hour or so north of New York City, where the skyline is still visible from mountain peaks, bobcats, black bears, rattlesnakes, and turkeys roam. They all thrive in what ecologists call young forest, an ecosystem halfway between grassland and what comes to mind when thinking of a forest.Unfortunately, their landscape is threatened. And virtually the only way to make room for a young forest is to cut down an old one. This is a tough sell in an eco-conscious world. No one wants to see a single tree cut down, let alone an entire woodlands. Ecologists are frustrated.“I blame Dr. Seuss for ‘The Lorax,’” said Michael Burger, the managing director of Audubon New York.But an interactive project that involves counting animals in the young forest has found a way to get through to a skeptical public. Furthermore, it has enlisted said public to help with the work.The project, Canid Camera, asks online volunteers to participate in a census of the young forest. Biologists and undergraduates from the SUNY College of Environmental Science and Forestry have set up camera traps in Putnam and Dutchess Counties in the Hudson Valley and are relying on the volunteers to label the hundreds of thousands of photos snapped by the rigs to get a sense of what animals are there.Users log on to the Canid Camera website and browse through each photo and describe what they see: what animal is in the frame, and how many. The process is hypnotic, like scrolling through an Instagram feed of forest creatures going about their daily lives. So far, thousands of volunteers have labeled 200,000 shots, with a new set of 50,000 to be released this month.The byproduct of this census is to draw volunteers in, which makes the project easier to understand.Young forests were once plentiful across the Northeast, but now they cover only a fraction of their former range. At least 100 species, including cottontail rabbits, foxes, otters and muskrats, are in decline because of its loss.The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation has introduced an effort to restore young forest areas, although the goal seems counterintuitive, cutting down forests to make room for new ones.“We can’t rely on Mother Nature to create young forests like she has for every century before this one,” said Amanda Cheeseman, a postdoctoral associate at SUNY-ESF, where she oversees Canid Camera.That’s because the department is unlikely to allow the natural methods like fires and flooding, especially in such a populous region as the Hudson Valley. So to create forest diversity, most biologists maintain that clear-cutting acreage is necessary. Yet despite the endorsement of groups like the Audubon Society to do just this, Mr. Burger said that local residents were attending public meetings and pushing back. Some, worried about climate change, don’t want to see the clearances happen since trees are particularly good at storing carbon.“Their hearts are in the right place,” Mr. Burger said. “But that’s not sustainable forestry.”Studies find that mixed-aged forests make the environment more resilient against pest outbreaks, weather events, even climate change. That’s in addition to sustaining species that do best in young forest areas.And that’s where the camera traps come in. Motion-sensing rigs the size of lunchboxes are attached to trees about a foot and a half off the ground. The traps take a snap anytime something moves, like a family of bears clambering through the frame. But a strong breeze may be enough to trigger it.Once the photos are uploaded, volunteers can click through as many as they care to, choose a label from a premade list of a few dozen options. There is even a field guide with details on how to tell similar species apart, like gray and red squirrels. Individual pictures are screened 15 times before being marked done. For images with conflicting information — three volunteers see a turkey, say, and the rest see a ruffed grouse — Dr. Cheeseman and her interns weigh in.“There is a learning curve,” said William McShea, an ecologist at the Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, where he helps run eMammal, another camera trap project that relies on volunteers. “People get better at it as they go along.”Those volunteers do get something in return: a sense of being part of a team. They want to see the best images, interact with researchers on tough photos, and learn something. Some projects even include volunteer names on research papers.“They are doing you a favor,” Mr. McShea said. “You have to be giving them feedback. They want to be part of the project.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sophie HaigneyFive large-scale, primary yellow sculptures, made of an extremely durable synthetic rubber stretched between stainless steel armatures, will be open to the public on Park Avenue on Monday.This series, by the Brooklyn-based artist Joseph La Piana, is called “Tension Sculptures,” and will be installed on five corners between 53rd Street and 70th Street.“I generally like working with material that’s passive in nature, that can be activated through force, like gravity or suspension, that gives it another life,” he said. The rubber of these sculptures, he said, “will outlive who we are.”The dimensions of the artworks vary, but they’re all sizable; the tallest is 16 feet high and the widest is 22 feet long. The installation is presented by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation and  the Fund for Park Avenue’s Sculpture Advisory Committee. The art will remain on display until the end of July.“The committee was initially drawn to Joseph’s concept of tension and the energy that these pieces will bring to the Avenue,” Barbara McLaughlin, president of the Fund for Park Avenue wrote in an email. The tulips, she noted, won’t bloom until late April — something Mr. La Piana said he looks forward to as well, as a chance to see how the colors will interact with the living environment.Of the sculptures, Mr. La Piana said: “The material is being pushed to its limits. They’re not going to snap, but they’re pushed to the limits.”Mr. La Piana said he sees the “Tension Sculptures” as having societal implications. “Politically and societally and environmentally, we’re being pushed to the point of collapse like the materials,” he said. “But in the sense that these sculptures will not collapse, there’s some hope.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia MoskinMAD, an influential Danish nonprofit group dedicated to global change in the restaurant industry, on Tuesday announced its most ambitious project to date: building a permanent educational center in Copenhagen.With funding from the Danish government for research and planning, the group will open the center, tentatively called the Gastro-Akademi. Its immediate goal is to teach chefs from around the world how restaurants can become more humane, responsible and sustainable. In the long term, the group hopes to address the industry’s many endemic problems, from climate change and food waste to its history of racism, sexism and violence.About $3.8 million in seed money for the academy will come directly from the Ministry of Environment and Food of Denmark, an unusual example of public funding for culinary education that emphasizes sustainability, diversity and gender equality over knife skills and tourist dollars.“The food we eat and the ways we produce it have a major impact on human health and environmental sustainability,” the Danish prime minister, Lars Lokke Rasmussen, said in an email interview. “Gastronomy is therefore also a means to address global sustainability challenges — whether health, environmental or climate related.”The grant is part of Gastro 2025, a multiagency push to make Denmark a world leader in food systems, as it is in areas like green energy and alternative transportation. It is also, Mr. Rasmussen said, official recognition that innovative cuisine has produced tangible benefits for Denmark. What began as chefs’ experiments with local foraging and cold-climate cooking have transformed the country into a global food destination.Although a brick-and-mortar academy is years away, pilot programs will start this year. Two small groups of chefs, scientists, activists and farmers will meet in Copenhagen for five-day immersion programs to sketch the way forward.“We want to make it a place to learn all the things we don’t seem to learn when we are becoming cooks,” said René Redzepi, the Danish chef and founder of the acclaimed restaurant Noma and of MAD, whose name is the Danish word for food.Leadership and management, in particular, are skills that chefs rarely acquire before becoming business owners. Mr. Redzepi will work with an advisory group of chefs and food leaders, mostly from Scandinavia, to set the curriculum.“Fifteen years ago, academics were not thinking about chefs, and chefs were not thinking about climate,” said Melina Shannon-DiPietro, the executive director of MAD. “Now we know that those connections have to be made.”Mr. Redzepi has long challenged the parameters of restaurants, and food itself. With his work at Noma, he became the global avatar of the naturalistic New Nordic movement. Starting in 2003, he herded famous chefs from around the world into the wilderness for Cook It Raw, an annual hunting-gathering junket into the wilds of places like Japan, Lapland and the Lowcountry of the American South. He closed the original Noma in 2017, then recreated versions of it in Japan, Australia and Mexico before reopening in Copenhagen in 2018.Since MAD was formed in 2011, its Symposium has brought chefs, farmers, academics and activists to Copenhagen every two years for a meeting that has become a kind of Davos for the food world, with admission by application only. Each gathering incorporates not only lectures and workshops on subjects like carbon-footprint reduction, but also events like singalongs, Vedic breathing exercises, live-chicken decapitation and endless waves of innovative food like cauliflower ceviche tostadas, raw abalone, pork cracklings and goat-milk ice cream.The Gastro-Akademi is an outgrowth of the nonculinary side of the Symposium, where talks have grown ever more grave in recent years, addressing sexual harassment, glacial melt, the behavioral economics of tipping and mental illness. MAD has also collaborated with Yale University on a leadership summit, and some of the same chefs who have participated in the Symposium — David Chang of the Momofuku restaurants, Kylie Kwong of Australia and the transplanted American Rosio Sanchez — are advisers on the development of the academy.One, Jessica Koslow of Sqirl in Los Angeles, said MAD sessions have shown that the restaurant industry, which used to be intensely nationalistic, has become global in its outlook and concerns. “Some things about the industry are the same no matter if you’re cooking in Turkey or India or Italy,” she said.“You can be an amazing chef, but if you can’t lead, or lead by example, there should be questions about your work,” she said. “MAD is asking the tough questions that you don’t ask when you’re a chef and all you think about is checking off your list of what you need to cut.”Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.AdvertisementSupported byTo the Editor:In his review of “A Bright Future: How Some Countries Have Solved Climate Change and the Rest Can Follow,” by Joshua S. Goldstein and Staffan A. Qvist (Feb. 10), Richard Rhodes correctly notes that nuclear power should be part of a future carbon-free energy mix. However, he doesn’t present quite enough of the math to fairly evaluate their proposal.First is the sheer number of reactors. Nathan Lewis at Caltech estimates that on the order of 20,000 new 1-GWe plants will be required to meet projected demands in the second half of the 21st century. Just 10 percent of Professor Lewis’s estimate still represents a lot of construction and an enormous amount of money. How does this actually happen?Second, who is going to build, operate and regulate these plants? Despite the disasters at Three Mile Island, Chernobyl and Fukushima, the commercial nuclear industry, clustered in the developed world, actually has been remarkably safe over its lifetime. Yet much of the developing world, where energy demand is growing most rapidly, struggles to deliver basic services such as clean water and human waste disposal.Are big, centrally located power plants the real solution for the energy demands of the developing world? These plants require clustered high demand and extensive transmission capacity; this is perhaps fine for megacities, but much of the demand in the developing world is dispersed and more efficiently served by distributed power sources such as wind and solar that can be delivered in stages as demand increases.Complex problems rarely have simple solutions. No doubt nuclear power can and will be deployed to address some of the energy needs of the developing world. However, should our efforts to reduce carbon emissions and meet global energy demands be vested in a single 20th-century technology? The future of the planet might be better served by working to develop next-generation power sources and the political will and private capital necessary to deploy them.RICHARD G. LITTLE TROY, N.Y.The writer is a visiting research scholar in disaster mitigation, industrial and systems engineering, at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.♦To the Editor:Richard Rhodes’s review conforms, not surprisingly, to his longstanding bias in favor of nuclear power. But he doesn’t get history right. The anti-nuclear-power movement did not arise from concerns about overpopulation. These movements were separate. In fact, the gap between the antinuclear movement, arguably the most spontaneous grass-roots movement in history, and other environmental groups and movements is both striking and instructive.LORNA SALZMAN BROOKLYN♦To the Editor:I grew up with Three Mile Island and the environmental movement of the 1970s, and I can assure you that concerns about storing and transporting radioactive material, not population density, was reason to be concerned about nuclear power plants.VIVIAN LOUISE WILLIAMS MEDIA, PA.The writer is an educational consultant to the Philadelphia Water Department.♦To the Editor:How can one write a review extolling the (many) virtues of nuclear energy without mentioning, much less dealing with, the problems of nuclear-waste disposal?My then home state of North Carolina welshed on its agreement to take its turn as a depository in a multistate nuclear-waste compact. Nevada has so far resisted plans for disposal at Yucca Mountain, although that may change since the leader of the Senate is no longer from that state.Even in Finland, which has created a secure repository, there remains the problem that nuclear waste is a threat for many millenniums. How do we communicate with our descendants, if they exist 10,000 years from now, about the menace we have left for them?There may be solutions to these problems, but waste disposal must be part of the balance when we consider the pros and cons of nuclear power.TOM ROWE MARINA DEL REY, CALIF.♦To the Editor:Richard Rhodes’s review attempted to consider why Americans reject nuclear power as a reasonable energy option to moderate climate change.One reason is that the Nuclear Regulatory Commission is vulnerable because it is subject to partisan appointments, budget cuts and policy changes that threaten protocols that do not have great flexibility. The satire of a bumbling Homer Simpson as a nuclear plant worker plays out the endgame of nuclear annihilation to an audience terrified of a nuclear accident in a way that tickles us but does not dissolve our very real fear.DESTINY KINAL DELRAY BEACH, FLA.AdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Also this week: Our correspondent braves the Northern European winter on a commuter bike.By Tik Root and Somini SenguptaWelcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By Tik RootExactly how humans came up with the idea of roasting and brewing coffee beans isn’t clear. More certain is the fact that coffee has grown into a global industry worth billions of dollars. And with that popularity comes climate consequences.There’s deforestation to grow more beans, the shipping emissions that come from moving them to market and the resources that go into packaging. So, with more than 80 percent of Americans regularly drinking a cup (or three), greening our collective coffee habit could have positive effects.That process starts at the source. Today, there are myriad labels, seals and certifications that promise you information on the human and environmental impact of your beans. An organic label, for instance, implies limits on the chemicals (like pesticides) used to grow the coffee, while a fair trade seal should signal better treatment of workers and communities.Bob Schildgen, who writes the Mr. Green column for the Sierra Club, said the main labels he trusts for coffee are the United States Department of Agriculture organic certification and the Fairttrade seal. He said Smithsonian Bird Friendly and Rainforest Alliance Certified also offer at least some assurances that the beans are produced with care.Once you’ve found beans with a lower environmental impact, what else can you do?Ditching single-serving pods is one step. Not only do they require more packaging, but single servings also take significantly more energy to brew than traditional drip methods.Even John Sylvan, one of the founders of Keurig, says he wishes he he’d never introduced coffee pods to the world. “I feel bad sometimes that I ever did it,” he told The Atlantic, in 2015. “No matter what they say about recycling, those things will never be recyclable.” (A Kuerig representative disputed that, saying many of the company’s pods were already recyclable and that it aimed to make all of them recyclable by 2020).You can skip the pods, and the electric coffee machine, by opting for pour-over preparations. You might also consider a metal or cloth filter instead of paper (though the metal allows more acid to pass through). Or, eliminate the filter altogether by pressing your coffee. Best yet, try cold brew. No boiling water, and thus no electricity, needed. And some aficionados say it delivers better flavor with less acidity.Once you’ve made your coffee, some of the things that go with it can be just as important as the brew itself. Milk, for instance, accounts for more than half the emissions footprint of the average coffee (and that percentage is drastically higher for dairy-heavy orders like lattes). Single-use cups generate a lot of waste, so be sure to reach for a reusable mug instead.Finally, don’t forget: Those coffee grounds are compostable. Next time forgo the trash for the compost bin, or dump the grounds directly in the garden.By Somini SenguptaI’m a wimp when it comes to the cold. I don’t like being cold. I most certainly don’t like riding a bike on cold and windy days with sharp, icy rain poking me in the face.But that’s is exactly what I found myself doing, over the course of five days in the depth of winter in Copenhagen.I loved it.I went to Copenhagen to report on the city’s plan to be net carbon neutral by 2025. Some 43 percent of Copenhageners commute to work or school on their bikes. So I got a bike from my hotel, adjusted the saddle to my non-Viking height, and set off. The parking lot at the Norreport train station was a sprawling jumble of two-wheelers.Some of the busiest bike lanes are elevated a couple of inches above the car lane, so there’s not much of a risk of a car cutting you off or opening a door and knocking you over. Commuter trains from the suburbs are packed with bikes. Copenhageners are not as aggressive as Amsterdammers on their bikes, and so I was only occasionally berated for going too slow.There were lots of simple things that Copenhagen had done. Apartment buildings have eight separate recycling bins, including for hard plastic, soft plastic, electronics, and food waste. At Tivoli, an old-fashioned amusement park, there was a kiosk to return reusable coffee cups. The drains don’t back up into the street after a few hours of rain — like they do in my neighborhood in Brooklyn — not even when there’s heavy, wet snow that turns into sloppy slush on the ground. The road to carbon neutrality is paved with imperfect solutions. You can read about them in my story here — like, is it smart to burn garbage for heat and electricity?Cities are going to have to do some heavy lifting if the world is to slow down climate change. Half of humanity now lives in cities, which produce most global emissions. Cities are both the source of the problem and, potentially, the source of big fixes. Copenhagen’s experience could show what works and what doesn’t.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what we’re doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.AdvertisementSupported byAn arcane 1946 law has proved a roadblock. By one count, 30 big regulations have been challenged, and the administration has lost 28 times. By Margot Sanger-KatzEver since President Trump took office, his appointees have directed federal agencies to draft regulations meant to delay or reverse policies of the Obama administration.Nearly all the proposals have been tripped up by the same arcane 1946 law governing administrative policies. Just last week, two signature administration actions — to add a question about citizenship status to the 2020 census, and to allow employers to avoid covering birth control for their workers if they object to it — have been stymied by rulings under the law.That law, the Administrative Procedure Act, was written to make sure that the executive branch followed some basic steps when it wanted to change policies. Over time, courts have given it additional teeth by requiring regulators to follow certain processes and conduct certain analyses before making changes. The Trump administration appears to have repeatedly failed to hew to those standards.“I think there was a lot of corner cutting by the administration,” said Josh Blackman, an associate professor at the South Texas College of Law in Houston, who has been critical of shortcuts in the regulatory process by both the Trump and Obama administrations.An analysis by the Institute for Policy Integrity at New York University School of Law shows that more than 90 percent of court challenges to major Trump deregulatory actions have been successful so far. By the institute’s count, 30 big rules have been challenged, and the courts have found for the litigants 28 times.Some of those rulings may change after appeals to higher courts, but administrative law experts said even the string of lower-court rulings was unusual. In a typical administration, the government wins on such challenges around 70 percent of the time, said Richard Revesz, a law professor at N.Y.U. who specializes in environmental law. “This is truly aberrational,” he said.The law gives federal agencies a lot of latitude to write regulations, but it says that major actions have to follow certain steps. For big changes, agencies are supposed to go through what’s called “notice and comment”: They must issue a proposal, let the public respond with ideas, then incorporate feedback into a final version.A lot of the losses came because the administration skipped those steps, instead announcing that it would pause or reverse pending rules — or that some emergency conditions justified an instant regulatory change. An earlier version of the contraceptive rule, and several environmental rules, including a suspension of Obama-era methane standards, were attempted without notice and comment.But even some Trump policies that have followed the usual regulatory steps have been found to run afoul of the law’s standards for administrative process. The law says that the executive branch should be allowed to interpret the law as long as its decisions aren’t “arbitrary” and “capricious.” “It’s a core protection against arbitrary governance,” said Gillian Metzger, a professor at Columbia Law School who studies administrative law. Under modern case law, that means that agencies need to conduct analyses of the rule’s consequences and address serious critiques. But it’s still a standard that scholars say is quite deferential to agency preferences, once regulators do the work.An attempt to allow Kentucky to impose work requirements on Medicaid beneficiaries was knocked down in June for failing to pass the test. The judge ruled that the administration had failed to adequately consider the possible negative consequences of the policy — primarily, that an estimated 95,000 poor Kentuckians would lose their health insurance. The administration went back, added more analysis, and began the program a second time, though the litigation continues.A recent ruling on changes to the 2020 census also failed the test, according to a federal judge in New York. The judge said Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the Commerce secretary, broke “a veritable smorgasbord” of federal rules.The rule-making sloppiness may reflect the president’s enthusiasm for deregulation, and the distrust of agency staff by many of his political appointees. “It’s hard to understand as anything but a combination of haste and ineptitude,” said Nicholas Bagley, a law professor at the University of Michigan, who worked in the Obama administration Justice Department defending its regulations.In many cases, it’s easy enough for regulators to bounce back from a loss on procedural grounds. Trump administration agencies may have better luck with their subsequent efforts, which are now underway in several areas where initial rule making was rejected by courts. Mr. Bagley said he expected the administration would fare better on many rules the second time around.In other cases, flaws with process may be the least of the problem. Ultimately, regulations are required to comply not just with the Administrative Procedure Act but also with the underlying law that authorized them. “Sometimes, better analysis would show how harmful the policy is,” Mr. Revesz said.Regulations have always been challenged under the Administrative Procedure Act, and successful challenges of major ones may be getting more common. As Congress has become more gridlocked, and as presidents have pushed the boundaries of executive authority, the courts have weighed in more often on boundary-stretching rules. The Bush administration lost a string of cases over its environmental regulations. The Obama administration absorbed some setbacks, too, including a pause to its regulation on power plant emissions and an appeals court ruling against its creation of the DACA program to provide legal status to young people whose parents had come to the country illegally.Studies have shown that, while the differences are small, politics does have a bearing on how closely judges scrutinize the quality of regulatory analysis. In general, judges appointed by Democrats tend to be more skeptical of rules written by Republican administrations, and Republican appointees are more dubious about Democratic rule making.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressMEXICO CITY — Mexico's state and federal prison systems are understaffed and dirty, but are no longer so dangerous and overcrowded, according to a report released Thursday.The governmental National Human Rights Commission says that 84 percent of the 165 state prisons inspected have insufficient staff, 76 percent don't adequately separate convicted inmates from people awaiting trial, and 72 percent had problems with hygiene.But prison riots and fights fell to 892 in 2018, down from 1,043 in 2017. And killings inside prisons fell from 104 in 2017 to 31 in 2018.Overcrowding was reported at 34 percent of state prisons and none of the 21 federal prisons. That marked progress for prisons that had once often been seriously overcrowded.However, Mexico's Congress recently approved reforms that would require more people to spend time in prison on pre-trial detention, a practice that had been reserved only for the most serious crimes.The head of the rights commission, Luis Gonzalez Perez, predicted that would swell the prison population, and that the construction of new prisons hadn't kept up with the predicted increase."The risk is that the prison population is going to grow strongly, that's the risk and we haven't solved it," said Gonzalez Perez. "That is why, when measures are taken, they have to be integrally planned."Inmates control at least some activities at 45 percent of state prisons and extort other inmates at 40 percent.The commission criticized this year's decision to close the Islas Marias penal colony, noting the island facility was the highest-rated among all federal prisons. The last 652 inmates were transferred off the island, located 70 miles (110 kilometers) off the Pacific coast of Nayarit state, in February.The penal colony, the last of its type in the hemisphere, will be turned into an environmental education center.The island's low-risk population, lack of walls in most places and greater liberty for inmates made it a good place for inmates to get ready for release. But the costs associated with maintaining the remote island prison were much higher than other mainland prisons.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Jeannette CatsoulisApproaching weighty themes with a very light touch, Benedikt Erlingsson’s “Woman at War” is an environmental drama wrapped in whimsical comedy and tied with a bow of midlife soul-searching. The package is lumpy at times, but not unwieldy, thanks to an engaging central performance and a cinematographer, Bergsteinn Bjorgulfsson, whose sweeping shots of frozen heath and lowering Icelandic skies wash the screen — and our minds — of extraneous distractions.The movie’s heart and spine is Halla (Halldora Geirharosdottir), 50, a sunny choir director and fearless eco-activist. Intent on halting the construction of a new aluminum smelter outside Reykjavik, she sabotages power lines and demolishes the drones deployed to deter her. So far, she has eluded capture despite increasingly daring exploits; and when we see no partner or family other than an identical twin sister (also played by Geirharosdottir), we wonder if her adventures are filling more than just a need to save her homeland.The arrival of a letter announcing that her application to adopt a child, filed years earlier, has been approved, strengthens that suspicion. Yet as Halla teeters between motherhood and vandalism — between creation and destruction — her embrace of the natural world intensifies. A dead sheep’s carcass shields her from helicopters, and, later, hot springs revive her frozen body. Often she’s pictured moving through water or clinging to the earth, face buried in gorse and arms flung wide, as if trying to stop her world from spinning.Surreal touches, like pop-up musicians only Halla can see, give the movie’s politics a playful, fairy-tale cast, but “Woman at War” is more captivated by Halla’s internal struggle. Should she raise a child or change the world? Or can the first achieve the second?Movie data powered by IMDb.comAdvertisementSupported byHalley Marisa Goodman and Benjamin Zadek Mandel were married Jan. 26 at Cipriani 42nd Street in Manhattan. Rabbi Joshua M. Davidson officiated.Mrs. Mandel, 30, is a research analyst at Baron Capital, an asset management firm in Manhattan. She graduated magna cum laude with a dual degree — a bachelor of science in economics and a bachelor of arts in economic history — from the University of Pennsylvania, from which she also received an M.B.A.She is a daughter of Dr. Candyce Silver and Dr. David P. Goodman of Muttontown, N.Y. The bride’s parents are psychiatrists in private practice, based in Bayside, Queens.Mr. Mandel, 32, is an investment analyst at Discovery Capital Management, a hedge fund in South Norwalk, Conn. He graduated from Dartmouth, and received an M.B.A. from Harvard. He is the treasurer on the board of CitySquash, a nonprofit after-school enrichment program for children in the Bronx and Brooklyn.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jeannette Catsoulis“The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind,” the directing debut of the actor Chiwetel Ejiofor, is so worthy, so earnest and so achingly sincere that it’s almost painful to criticize. Yet even if you know nothing of its real-life hero, the Malawian engineer William Kamkwamba (whose 2009 memoir was the basis for this dramatization), you will know exactly where this well-intentioned tale is going: it’s right there in the title.We’re introduced to 13-year-old William (the delightful Maxwell Simba) in 2001, in his village in rural Malawi where lengthening cycles of drought and heavy rains are making harvests increasingly precarious. His parents, Trywell (Ejiofor, terrific as always) and Agnes (an affecting Aïssa Maïga), are determined to give their children an education. But when they’re unable to pay William’s school tuition, the boy — whose aptitude for fixing small appliances is already evident — takes to the library to teach himself. It’s not long before he’s fending off famine by repurposing scrap metal and bicycle parts into an ingenious irrigation system.Though hobbled by an obviousness that dampens any suspense, this sensitive, environmentally concerned movie is most successful when steeped in the particularities of its location. Corrupt politicians and predatory corporations use climate anxiety and falling grain prices as levers to further their own agendas. And as food supplies dwindle and Trywell’s neighbors succumb to buyouts and looters, the movie pulls inward, focusing its tug between tradition and modernity in Trywell’s resistance to his son’s fantastical-seeming plan.Challenging the story’s tonal monotony, Dick Pope’s cinematography is clean and unshowy, highlighting faces slowly sinking from hunger and fields turning all too quickly to dust. William’s experiment might end happily, but the suffering it alleviated is unlikely to do the same.Movie data powered by IMDb.comAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The U.S. Interior Department's inspector general office has opened a probe into recently-confirmed Secretary David Bernhardt on several allegations, including conflict of interest, it said in a letter to lawmakers on Monday. Mary Kendall, the Interior Department's deputy inspector general, told Senator Ron Wyden in a letter, a copy of which was seen by Reuters, that it received seven complaints from a "wide assortment of complainants alleging various potential conflict of interest and other violations when he was deputy secretary of the department." Kendall said her office had opened an investigation and was continuing to gather information about the complaints. She did not detail the other complaints against Bernhardt, a Republican.Wyden and Senator Mazie Hirono, both Democrats, had urged the inspector general in separate requests to investigate allegations that Bernhardt had inappropriately blocked a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service assessment of the effect of pesticides on several endangered species. The service is an office of the Interior Department. Bernhardt, a former energy lobbyist, was confirmed by the Senate last week in a 56 to 41 vote. He replaced Ryan Zinke who resigned under a cloud of ethics investigations. Wyden, who had pushed for a delay in Bernhardt's confirmation vote, had also asked the Department of Justice to investigate whether Bernhardt was in violation of lobbying disclosure laws. "We now have an Interior Secretary who has been on the job for one full business day and is already under investigation," Wyden said. "With Bernhardt's track record and the number of allegations against him, it's no surprise. At least now, the American people will finally get the answers they deserve." Bernhardt's critics, including environmental groups, have said his previous work as a lobbyist could risk conflicts of interest, unless he recuses himself from certain issues, because he worked for companies that could benefit by opening up lands to development.The Interior Department, which employs more than 70,000 people and oversees more than 20 percent of the U.S. land surface, has been central to President Donald Trump’s "energy dominance” policy of boosting energy production.Interior spokeswoman Faith Vander Voort said Bernhardt "is in complete compliance with his ethics agreement and all applicable laws, rules, and regulations."AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie AstorSingle-issue voters are common enough. Single-issue candidates are unicorns.This hasn’t deterred Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington, who entered the presidential race on Friday on a bold bet: that a singular focus on combating climate change can distinguish him in one of the largest Democratic fields ever.Just spitballing here, but perhaps saving people and the planet from climate catastrophe, and creating millions of jobs doing it, should be THE top issue. 2020 must be a referendum on climate action. https://t.co/OGXiUF8GftHere is a look at what Mr. Inslee wants to do about the climate, as well as other significant issues, even if he doesn’t emphasize them in his campaign.Projections on the effects of climate change are increasingly dire, and Mr. Inslee argues that combating it should take precedence over all else — though he rejects the premise that it can be neatly separated from other issues to begin with. Extreme weather has exacerbated refugee crises and fueled immigration, for instance. Heat waves and poor air quality affect health.Mr. Inslee has praised the Green New Deal — a sweeping proposal by some Democrats in Congress that, among many other environmental and economic goals, calls for a fully renewable energy supply within 10 years — for elevating public discussion of climate change and acknowledging the scale of the action needed. But he has also described it as more of an “aspirational” outline of principles than a policy document.His environmental policy record in his home state is long. In 2015, he ordered Washington’s Department of Ecology to impose a cap on carbon emissions. He created a fund for clean energy, and the state now has extensive solar energy infrastructure and electric buses. While economic damage is a concern for opponents of limiting fossil fuels, Washington had the highest G.D.P. growth in the nation in 2018, according to the federal Bureau of Economic Analysis.Mr. Inslee also tried unsuccessfully last year to get the Washington Legislature to vote on a carbon tax, which would have been the first in the nation; voters rejected the proposal in November. He then proposed a different series of actions, including running the state’s electric utilities fully on renewable power by 2045, requiring buildings to be more energy efficient, promoting electric vehicles and cutting down on hydrofluorocarbons, which are used in air-conditioners. Hydrofluorocarbon emissions have been growing faster than any other form of greenhouse gas emissions.In an op-ed in The Washington Post, Mr. Inslee called for net-zero carbon emissions nationwide by 2050 — a longer timeline than the Green New Deal’s 10 years, which experts say is unrealistic. (“Net-zero” could mean either eliminating carbon emissions altogether, or reducing them and using offsetting technologies to cancel out the rest.) He also called for a “100 percent clean-energy grid” and “massive investments” to transition buildings, industries and transportation to renewable sources.While Mr. Inslee has made clear that he intends to focus overwhelmingly on climate change, he is on the record supporting liberal policies in many other areas.• He has been outspoken in favor of gun control, and after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., last year, he confronted President Trump on live television, denouncing Mr. Trump’s suggestion to arm schoolteachers. Among other measures, he wants to expand background checks and restrict some semiautomatic weapons. His advocacy on the issue goes back many years; he lost his seat in Congress after voting for the 1994 assault weapons ban.• He supports universal health care in some form and recently proposed a government-funded “public option” on Washington’s insurance exchange, which he cast as the first step toward a universal program.• While he has not released a federal tax proposal, he recently introduced a plan in Washington State that would increase several taxes and institute a 9 percent tax on some capital gains. (The state doesn’t tax capital gains now.) His budget would increase spending by about 20 percent to fund anti-climate-change programs, education and mental health services, and to protect endangered orcas.• He backed legislation to increase Washington’s minimum wage from $9.47 an hour to $12. Voters approved that increase in 2016, and it has been phased in gradually.• He supports legalizing marijuana and announced a program in January that will pardon some Washington residents previously convicted of marijuana possession.• He opposes the death penalty as currently administered and suspended executions in Washington in 2014, saying the risk of wrongful convictions was unacceptable. “There are too many flaws in the system,” he said at the time, “and when the ultimate decision is death, there is too much at stake to accept an imperfect system.”Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBAGRAM, Afghanistan — As the early morning light breaks over the plain north of Kabul, bird hunter Jan Agha checks his snares as he has done for the past 30 years, hoping to catch a crane, using a tethered bird to lure others down to the nets.Bird hunting is an ancient sport in Afghanistan, where local and migrating species have flocked for thousands of years and where even amid the chaos of the past 40 years of conflict, the tradition persists."I have learned different types of hunting from my ancestors because they were hunters too," said 49-year-old Jan Agha, a farmer in Parwan province."Some of my sons have learned hunting from me and I hope to see at least two of my sons become hunters so my name is remembered and people know my sons after my death."The war has left much of the environment near Kabul devastated with uncleared mines, pollution, uncontrolled building and general neglect. Only in the last few years has there been an effort to restore areas like the former royal hunting grounds at Kol-e-Hashmat Khan in the city's southwest.Spring is the season of cranes, which the hunters try to catch alive in snares, using a specially trained tethered bird whose cries attract passing flocks."I like this crane because it won't be silent when the other big groups of cranes come, and it always forces them to come down. I like it because he is really a hunter bird."With environmental controls virtually non-existent, there is little check on how many birds are caught or shot and Jan Agha, who started hunting when he was around 12 or 13, reckons he has taken more than 1,000 cranes and an uncountable number of quails, ducks hawks and sparrows.The birds are usually taken to shops near the town of Bagram or to Kabul itself, where there is a popular bird market in the center of the old city.For Jan Agha, hunting is a relief, taking him out of the daily round and into the harshly beautiful countryside, where groups of hunters set out in the night, picnicking at night in the desert before testing their skills at dawn.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A federal court has struck down the Trump administration's repeal of an Obama-era policy aimed at boosting revenue for taxpayers by changing how energy companies value sales of coal, oil and gas extracted from federal and tribal land.The decision, which found the Interior Department's repeal of the so-called valuation rule was "arbitrary and capricious", was the latest blow to the Trump administration's "energy dominance" agenda in the courts, where environmental groups and some states have challenged dozens of de-regulatory actions. "Once again, the Trump Administration has been checked by the courts in its unlawful attempt to bend over backwards to please special interests at the expense of hardworking Americans," California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said in a statement late on Friday.Becerra said the district court ruling would result in $71 million a year more in royalties for U.S. taxpayers from companies that mine or drill on federal lands. The Interior Department is currently reviewing the decision, agency spokeswoman Molly Block said on Monday. Interior and industry group interveners have 60 days to appeal the decision.The valuation rule was proposed by former Interior Secretary Sally Jewell in 2016 to close a loophole that enabled companies to dodge royalty payments when mining on taxpayer-owned public land. It required energy companies to pay royalties on sales to the first unaffiliated customer, known as an arm’s-length sale, as the fuel moves to market.A Reuters investigation found in 2012 that coal companies were using affiliated brokers to settle royalty payments on exports to Asia at much lower domestic prices.In early 2017, former Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke announced the agency would move to repeal the rule, which he said increased costs for coal, oil and gas companies and hampered production on federal lands, “making us rely more and more on foreign imports of oil and gas.”Zinke said the department’s royalty policy committee, formed in 2017 with advisers from energy companies and local governments, would propose alternatives to the rule. Conservation groups last fall sued the Interior Department, accusing the committee being too heavily stacked with industry representatives.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBRUSSELS — BMW, and Volkswagen face possible hefty fines after EU antitrust regulators on Friday charged them and whistleblower Daimler with colluding to block the rollout of clean emissions technology.In the latest pollution scandal to hit the auto industry, the European Commission said it had sent statements of objections to the German carmakers setting out the charges, nearly two years after carrying out dawn raids at their premises.It said the collusion occurred between 2006 to 2014 and took place during technical meetings held by the "circle of five", namely BMW, Daimler and Volkswagen Group's VW, Audi and Porsche."Daimler, VW and BMW may have broken EU competition rules. As a result, European consumers may have been denied the opportunity to buy cars with the best available technology," European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager said in a statement.BMW said it would contest the allegations "with all legal means if necessary". It also said it was probable the Commission would issue a "significant fine" and it would set aside a provision of likely more than 1 billion euros, hurting first-quarter earnings.The EU focused on selective catalytic reduction systems, which reduce nitrogen oxides from diesel car emissions, and "Otto" particulate filters that reduce particulate matter emissions from petrol cars.EU enforcers said their case was not related to other investigations into the use of illegal defeat devices to cheat emissions tests and possible violations of environmental laws.EU fines could go as high as 10 percent of a company's global turnover. Volkswagen shares were down 0.8 percent in late session trading, Daimler was 0.6 percent lower, while BMW was up 0.8 percent in a flat European auto index.Bas Eickhout, a European Parliament lawmaker from the Green Party, said the carmakers' actions put a brake on innovation.The Commission did not say why the companies might have wanted to block emissions cleaning technology, but new systems can often add to costs for both manufacturers and consumers.Daimler, which alerted the regulator to the collusion, reiterated it did not expect to be fined as a result of its information. AdvertisementSupported byBy Teo BugbeeIn a new adaptation of the early 1960s Australian children’s book “Storm Boy,” the story of a child who raises pelicans is updated to mixed effect.In the present day, a businessman, Michael Kingley (Geoffrey Rush), is poised to make a deal with the devil — in this case, a mining company — that would decimate his home’s natural ecosystem. His granddaughter (Morgana Davies) urges him to reconsider, spurring Michael to tell her about his childhood. He recalls his youth on the coast, recounting the time when he was better known as Storm Boy.The director Shawn Seet flashes between scenes of Michael as an adult and his memories as Storm Boy (Finn Little), a child who lives in seclusion with his father, Hideaway Tom (Jai Courtney). They reside in a shack that sits on land they hope will become a pelican sanctuary, but hunters threaten the purity of the region and kill the birds for sport.Storm Boy’s loose education comes from his father, leaving him endless time to wander the beach. He finds three chicks orphaned by hunters and decides to raise the birds with the help of his father and Fingerbone Bill (Trevor Jamieson), a Ngarrindjeri Aboriginal who teaches the boy how to care for the land and animals. Storm Boy nurtures the three pelicans, forming a particular connection with a bird that he names Mr. Percival, who returns the child’s loyalty beyond all expectations.“Storm Boy” tries to present itself as a modern fable, where the lessons learned relate directly to present-day concerns over the environment, industrialization and the marginalization of indigenous cultures. But these themes come across as didactic rather than moving. The cinematography is frequently beautiful, in large part because of the majesty of South Australia’s Coorong region, where the movie was shot. But the ham-fisted dialogue saps the energy from the images, drawing attention to the thinness of archetypal characters. And the centrality of white characters who learn from a noble native undermines the film’s attempts at political relevance.Seet does best when he focuses on the boy with his birds. In keeping with the movie’s environmental themes, Seet uses live pelicans for many scenes, documenting the growth of the birds from bald infancy to their first flight. Largely free from the trappings of treacly dialogue, these scenes place the emphasis where it belongs — on the rather remarkable performance by its misty-eyed child actor and on nature itself.Movie data powered by IMDb.comStorm BoyRated PG. Running time: 1 hour 39 minutes.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersDENVER — Colorado lawmakers approved a bill on Wednesday overhauling regulations governing the state's robust oil and gas industry to prioritize public health and safety, over opposition by Republicans and industry groups.Governor Jared Polis, a Democrat, is expected to sign the bill passed by majority Democrats, into law.The controversial measure, which proponents say is the most sweeping changes to regulations in energy-rich Colorado in decades, would give local communities more oversight over development in their jurisdictions.The legislation requires the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, which oversees the industry, to hire a full-time staff of experts who will evaluate drilling impacts to air quality, among other controls.The bill’s sponsor, Democratic state Senator Steve Fenberg, said in a statement that the revamped regulations were “long overdue.”"This bill will ensure that public health and safety are the top priority in regulating oil and gas development in Colorado, and will empower local governments with the tools they need to address the concerns of their individual communities,” Fenberg said.Colorado ranks as the fifth-biggest state in the nation in crude oil production and sixth in natural gas production, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.The Colorado Oil and Gas Association, an industry group which opposed the bill, last month released a study it commissioned that said oil and gas production employs 89,000 people and pours $1 billion in tax revenues to state and local government coffers.The association said new rules could jeopardize what it called an “economic juggernaut.” The association said in a joint statement with the Colorado Petroleum Council after the bill’s passage that despite some amendments to the original bill that allayed some of the industry’s concerns, it still opposes the measure.“State officials have committed to working with industry experts during the highly complex regulatory rulemakings following the bill’s enactment,” the statement said. “That will be critical to minimizing the bill’s negative impacts on our state, and we hope that process can begin immediately.”Environmental groups that pushed the legislation hailed its passage.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDUBROVNIK, Croatia — China's prime minister promised Friday that his government will respect European standards and fair trade, seeking to allay concerns that it is flouting European Union competition rules with huge investments on the continent.Opening an annual summit between Eastern and Central European nations and China, Li Keqiang said "we intend to fully respect European standards."The Chinese government has also been criticized for failing to give reciprocal access for European companies to Chinese markets."We welcome openness and we want to treat all companies that operate in China equally and to increase imports from the (European) countries," he said through an interpreter. "China is open to the world...we welcome the two-way openness."Li arrived in Croatia after an EU-China meeting in Brussels earlier this week where EU officials demanded more balanced economic ties with a country they recently labelled a "systemic rival."EU member Croatia is hosting a two-day summit between China and 16 regional countries on expanding business, dubbed 16+1.Several Eastern European countries are part of China's ambitious "Belt and Road" investment and construction project that aims to create a gateway to western European markets. The project includes upgrading infrastructure to create a network of transport and trade links between Asia and Europe.Beijing has created a $3-billion fund and announced a $10-billion credit line for the 16 countries in the region.Critics of the project worry about Chinese-led investments flouting EU competition rules and that Eastern European countries might borrow too much from Chinese banks, creating a dependency. There are also concerns about the quality of construction, environmental safeguards and the risk of Chinese-supplied internet networks being exposed to cyberespionage.At the start of the plenary meeting, Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic said that over a relatively short time, the initiative "has resulted in the establishment of new ties and projects" also becoming a platform for "intense and substantial political dialogue" between the participating states.He also announced that Greece will join the coalition. The vision is to have the Chinese-controlled Greek port of Piraeus become an entry point for Chinese goods to Europe by linking it to railroads and highways that are also part of China's investments.Addressing the session in Dubrovnik, Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras described the decision to join the Chinese initiative as "a very crucial moment for global and regional developments.""We have to leave behind the crisis and find new models of regional and global cooperation," he said, adding that it must be done with "full respect" of the EU rules, Tsipras said.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's government proposed on Wednesday to criminalise some actions of animal rights protesters after activists blocked traffic in Melbourne and stormed farms and abattoirs this week to protest factory farming.The new law proposed by Prime Minister Scott Morrison is unusual, legal experts say, because it appears to be a specific response to the actions of a vegan activist group, AussieFarms. The group has posted an interactive map online of animal businesses, including farms, zoos and horse racing tracks, to promote a documentary film that calls for a ban on slaughterhouses.Under the new law, people who encourage trespassers by posting the location of an agricultural business on the Internet could face up to a year in prison if found guilty, the government said."When they are using people's personal information, details about their homes, it's not just their farm, it's their home, it's where their kids live and grow up," Morrison told reporters in the rural state of Tasmania."They are being targeted in the most mercenary way by an organisation that can only think of itself and not think to the real damage that is being done to the livelihoods of these hard-working Australians," he added.Australia is due to hold an election in May and most polls predict Morrison will lose, partly due to a drift of rural voters to other conservative parties.Traffic stopped for an hour in central Melbourne on Monday when about 100 protesters waved signs to promote the AussieFarms documentary, Dominion, which used drones and undercover footage to film feedlots and saleyards. [nL3N21Q1B8]It was part of a wave of action in three states, where activists targeted abattoirs in the middle of the night and at some farms chained themselves to equipment.Hugh de Kretser, executive director of the Human Rights Law Centre, said there were laws in place that limited the actions of environmental campaigners, including a ban on trespassing. "There's a suite of powers available to police and law enforcement agencies to deal with trespass and obstruction of traffic and the like," de Kretser told Reuters."Any attempts to further limit protest rights need to be very carefully scrutinised to make sure any penalty is not crushing, and the scope of any offence is not disproportionate to the conduct they're trying to prevent," he added.Chris Delforce, the director of Dominion, said he would rather go to jail than take down the group's website.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ellen RosenIf you’ve been worrying that drones would be filling the skies over your head, dropping packages off day after day at your neighbor’s house, leaving food on doorsteps or photographing your every move, you can relax a little. At least for now.The hype over commercial drones is, so far, largely just that. One of the people who contributed to that hype was Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder. In a “60 Minutes” interview in December 2013, he predicted that deliveries by drones could become commonplace within five years.The fifth anniversary of Mr. Bezos’s prediction has come and gone, but widespread deliveries by drone are not yet a reality, neither by Amazon nor by any other company.Regulatory thickets, technical complexity and the public’s skittishness have proven to be formidable hurdles. At a minimum, the unresolved issues include whether it is safe to allow drones to fly beyond a pilot’s visual line of sight, to operate at night and to fly over people.But that doesn’t mean there’s likely to be a drone-free future. And maybe there shouldn’t be.Test programs around the world that use the technology for lifesaving pharmaceuticals as well as for food and even coffee are attempting to prove that delivery by drones is not only safe, but efficient and environmentally sound.Several companies, including Zipline, which is distributing blood by drone in Rwanda, and Swoop Aero, an Australian company that is dispensing vaccines and other medication on Vanuatu in the Pacific, are focused on medical needs.Others are turning their sights on consumers, hoping drones can be part of the answer to helping small businesses compete with behemoth retailers — or even helping the big guys keep their competitive edge.Ultimately, says the analyst Colin Snow, whether for sunscreen or sushi, the “big question is whether it makes economic sense to do ‘last mile’ delivery by drone. Some studies say yes, while others say no.”Chinese aviation administrators, for example, have already approved drone deliveries by the e-commerce giant JD.com and delivery giant SF Holding Co. But in the United States, it will depend on whether regulators eventually allow drone companies to have autonomous systems in which multiple aircraft are overseen by one pilot and whether they can fly beyond the vision of that pilot. Current regulations do not permit multiple drones per operator without a waiver. Operators like Wing, the drone-delivery company owned by Google parent Alphabet, have that capability.But the immediate economic return isn’t clear yet. According to the chief executive of Wing, James Burgess, “scale doesn’t concern us right now. We strongly believe that eventually we will be able to develop a delivery service for communities that will enable them to transport items in just a few minutes at low cost.”The company, whose drones can now travel round trip up to 20 kilometers — just over 12 miles — is participating in various stages of testing on three different continents. Its first pilot program is in a suburb of Canberra, Australia, where it is working with local merchants to deliver small packages, including over-the-counter medicine, as well as food. The Australian regulators have issued a permit to allow one pilot to operate up to 20 drones at a time with virtual oversight.“We’ve tried to keep expectations to a minimum and stayed humble. We didn’t have a lot of preconceived notions,” Mr. Burgess said. The Wing drone is a hybrid that includes, yes, wings for horizontal flying, as well as miniaturized propellers — like a helicopter’s — that allow for hovering over a destination. Somewhat surprisingly, the most popular item ordered in the Australia pilot is coffee, which can be received — still hot — in as little as three minutes from the time the order is placed.This spring, the company will begin a new trial in Helsinki, for which it is soliciting views as to what should be delivered.Mr. Burgess also said that, separate from drone tests, the company and others were working on a so-called unmanned traffic management system. Akin to virtual air traffic controllers, the system will be designed to permit multiple aircraft — manned and unmanned — to fly safely in the airspace simultaneously. Wing is also one of several companies participating in a pilot program in Virginia. As with its testing in Finland and Australia, Wing will focus on the delivery of consumer goods, including food.The Virginia site, in Blacksburg, near Virginia Tech, is one of 10 chosen by the Federal Aviation Administration as part of its Unmanned Aircraft Systems Integration Pilot Program.The 10 were culled from 149 applications from “state, local and tribal governments,” agency spokesman Les Dorr said in an email. Those in the industry didn’t apply directly, but could show their interest, he said, and more than 2,800 companies responded.Wing and Uber are two of the companies participating. But Amazon’s Prime Air division is not among those testing its technology. In a statement issued when the 10 locales were announced last May, the company said, “While it’s unfortunate the applications we were involved with were not selected, we support the Administration’s efforts to create a pilot program aimed at keeping America at the forefront of aviation and drone innovation.”Amazon’s Prime Air is, however, part of a consortium of companies participating in the European Union’s test of drone deliveries in Belgium.A number of smaller drone companies are involved in testing programs elsewhere. North Carolina has partnered with Silicon Valley-based Matternet and Zipline to deliver essential medical supplies and laboratory samples. In addition, Israeli start-up Flytrex, which is already delivering goods by drone in Reykjavik in partnership with online Icelandic retailer AHA, will focus on food in Holly Springs, N.C., a fast-growing suburb of Raleigh.Those in the industry, not surprisingly, say that the response from residents has been positive. A Pew Research Center survey in December 2017, however, found that 54 percent of Americans disapprove of drones flying near homes; 11 percent support drones, while 34 percent favor limits on use.Part of the reluctance, some say, is concern about privacy and sound. As a result, local governments are trying to educate their residents about drone operation. Noise levels are comparable to dishwashers and cars driving nearby, according to a report by Flytrex.Privacy concerns are in part alleviated by ensuring that drones do not have forward-facing cameras capable of photographing those on the ground.While the F.A.A. has chosen the 10 pilots, the programs still need to apply for agency waivers because they will fly beyond the visual line of sight, fly at night and fly over people, fundamentals not allowed under current law. The agency is seeking comments on expanding permissible uses under current law; it is also testing to evaluate the parameters of regulation.As a practical matter, this means that some of the pilot programs are not yet operational as they await F.A.A. approval.That’s O.K., said James Pearce, a spokesman for the North Carolina Department of Transportation, which prefers to ensure that the drones can safely fly and that those on the ground are not exposed to any risks, including those that are self-inflicted. “We need to make sure that people know not to try to grab the drones.”The F.A.A. is making quarterly visits, said Aaron Levitt, the assistant director of engineering for Holly Springs, N.C., and a drone enthusiast. He recently spent several days on a site visit with agency representatives as they prepared for the first phase, which will permit 15 restaurants to send orders to a local athletic complex, and planned for a later phase when the drones will fly beyond the line of sight.While the deliberate pace may seem slow, Mr. Levitt, like others interviewed, remains sanguine. “It’s like the red flag laws when cars began to populate the roads. You had to have someone walking ahead with a flag to warn others. That’s where we are today with drones — not being able to fly beyond the visual line of sight is like not allowing a car to drive faster than a person can walk.”While the companies, F.A.A. and local governments test the capabilities and limits, there’s another factor that comes into play. Unlike traditional car or truck deliveries, battery-operated drones don’t rely on fossil fuels for their short flights. A 2018 study in the journal Nature found that electric drones were “far more efficient than trucks, vans, larger gasoline drones, and passenger cars,” when comparing for distance traveled. And though the study found that benefits may be reduced once the electricity used for recharging and warehousing was factored in, drones clearly have less environmental impact than a one-item delivery by car.The environmental benefits are real, Mr. Burgess said.Or, as Yariv Bash, the chief executive of Flytrex said: “Now, you’ve got a guy driving a one-ton car bringing a half-pound hamburger. It’s crazy.”AdvertisementSupported byEDITORS’ NOTEThe Common Sense column on Dec. 19 about Les Moonves, the ousted chief executive of CBS, and his rights under his termination agreement to sue the broadcast company for breach of contract, included remarks from an interview published in December in Agenda, an industry publication, that were attributed to Mr. Moonves. The validity of the Agenda interview has since been called into question. On Thursday, Agenda removed Mr. Moonves’s comments and published an editor’s note that stated, in part, that a representative for Mr. Moonves issued a statement denying that Mr. Moonves spoke with reporters from Agenda. The thrust of the column — that CBS is obliged to pay Mr. Moonves’s legal bills should he decide to sue the company — is accurate and unchanged, but the excerpted comments from the Agenda article have been removed from the online version of the column and an accompanying picture caption.CORRECTIONS: January 12, 2019INTERNATIONALAn article on Thursday about a government crackdown on skin-bleaching products in Rwanda paraphrased incorrectly comments by Dr. Carlos Charles. While he said that hydroquinone can cause a rash or ochronosis when used in high concentrations, he did not say that hydroquinone can increase the risk of cancer. (Past studies have shown some evidence of carcinogenic activity in rodents exposed to hydroquinone, but the substance has not been proven to increase the risk of cancer in humans.)NATIONALAn article on Thursday about the E.P.A.’s shutdown furlough of most inspection personnel described incorrectly Angela McFadden’s role at the Environmental Protection Agency. She is an environmental engineer who works for an agency program that oversees state-issued permits for the discharge of pollution in rivers and streams; she is not an inspector of water sites. The article also misquoted Ms. McFadden in her comments about her work at the E.P.A. While Ms. McFadden said, “I always find violations,” she did not go on to say, “even if it’s not things that are illegal.” The article also suggested that problems with chlorine levels in water are especially common in rural West Virginia. That is not the case.BUSINESSAn article on Friday about a settlement that could cost Fiat Chrysler more than $800 million referred incorrectly to the status of the company’s production of diesel-powered vehicles. After a halt in the 2017 model year for regulatory reasons, the company resumed making diesel versions of the Jeep Grand Cherokee and the Ram 1500 pickup; its diesel era has not ended. The error was repeated in a headline.SPORTSAn article on Friday about Joseph C. Tsai’s planned acquisition of the Liberty, a W.N.B.A. team, misidentified one of the three original W.N.B.A. teams still in existence. The Phoenix Mercury are one of the three teams; the Washington Mystics are not.SCIENCE TIMES An article on Friday about fast radio bursts misstated the institutions involved in the Chime study. Several Canadian universities participated, but Harvard did not.OBITUARIESAn obituary by The Associated Press on Friday about Samuel Snipes, a lawyer who represented the first black family to move into the all-white development of Levittown, Pa., misstated the number of years he had practiced law in Yardley, Pa. It was 60, not 50.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Thousands of environmental activists paralyzed parts of central London on Monday by blocking Marble Arch, Oxford Circus and Waterloo Bridge in a bid to force the government to do more to tackle climate change.Under sunny skies, activists sang songs or held signs that read "There is no Planet B" and "Extinction is Forever" at some of the capital's most iconic locations. Roadblocks were due to continue night and day at each site and the demonstrators said the protests could last at least a week.The protests are being led by the British climate group Extinction Rebellion and are to involve demonstrations in 33 countries around the world over the coming days."I realised that signing petitions and writing letters was not going to be enough. Real action is needed," said Diana McCann, 66, a retired wine trader from south London, holding a banner in the middle of a traffic-free road. "It's like a world war. We have to go on to a war footing."Extinction Rebellion, which generated headlines with a semi-nude protest in Britain's parliament earlier this month, has warned its members that some of them could be arrested for taking part in non-violent civil disobedience.The group is demanding the government declare a climate and ecological emergency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2025 and create a citizen's assembly of members of the public to lead on decisions to address climate change.At the Shell building near the River Thames, two protesters scaled up scaffolding writing 'Shell Knows!' in red paint on the front of the building and three protesters glued their hands to the revolving doors at the entrance. Activists said they smashed the glass of a revolving door and caused more than 6,000 pounds ($7,900) worth of damage. The organizers said five people had been arrested for criminal damage."EXTINCTION REBELLION" At Oxford Circus, protesters unveiled a pink boat that says "TELL THE TRUTH" and on Waterloo Bridge demonstrators brought trees, hanging baskets and skate ramps.The protest had a festive atmosphere, with many families in attendance, and a low police presence. Police later said that, from 1755 GMT for 24 hours, protesters would only be allowed to gather at Marble Arch to prevent "ongoing serious disruption". A Reuters photographer said police had begun arresting protesters on Waterloo Bridge.Extinction Rebellion wrote to Prime Minister Theresa May on Monday outlining their demands and asking for face-to-face talks, warning that they will escalate their disruptive actions over the coming weeks unless the government acts."Make no mistake, people are already dying," the letter states. "In the majority world, indigenous communities are now on the brink of extinction. This crisis is only going to get worse ... Prime minister, you cannot ignore this crisis any longer. We must act now."Organizers of the protests circulated legal advice to anyone planning to attend, requesting they refrain from using drugs and alcohol, and asking them to treat the public with respect.The disruption follows similar action last November when thousands of protesters occupied five central London bridges. Police arrested 85 people that day. Rowan McLaughlin, 47, a teacher, said this week's protests were more important that the huge pro and anti-Brexit protests in London recently.AdvertisementSupported byBy Milan Schreuer, Elian Peltier and Christopher F. SchuetzeBRUSSELS — Tens of thousands of children skipped school in Belgium on Thursday to join demonstrations for action against climate change, part of a broader environmental protest movement across Europe that has gathered force over the past several weeks.In Germany, France, Sweden, Switzerland and elsewhere, activists have come together on social media to gather in large numbers and without much apparent preparation, the protests taking a different shape in each country.In Germany, students have protested on Fridays, communicating mainly through the messaging app WhatsApp; in Belgium, they organize on Facebook and have skipped school by the thousands on four consecutive Thursdays.Last Sunday, climate protests in Brussels swelled to an estimated 100,000 people of all ages. That same day, an estimated 80,000 took part in cities across France — more than turned out for the “Yellow Vest” protests the day before.The climate movement has no obvious leaders or structure, but a 16-year-old Swede, Greta Thunberg, has drawn worldwide attention and inspired many of the protesters. She has called for school strikes to raise awareness of global warming, scolded world political and economic leaders at this month’s gathering in Davos, Switzerland, and even has her own TED Talk.Most older people do not feel the urgency young people do about global warming, said Axelle Kiambi, 17, who joined a demonstration in Brussels on Thursday with her sisters, Pauline, 16, and Elisa, 19.“To us, it is so self-evident that we can’t keep on going in this direction,” said Axelle, raising her voice above the drumming, whistling and shouting of her fellow protesters.“We come here with the right intentions, to protest in peace and to raise awareness about climate change, because we want to be on the right side of history,” Elisa Kiambi said. “It is time for the government to act.”After meeting this week with a delegation of climate activists, Belgium’s prime minister, Charles Michel, said he was prepared to act, but not at any cost.“Nothing is for free, someone always has to pay the bills,” he said.He seemed to refer to the Yellow Vest movement against economic woes and inequality, which has resonated with people across Europe, including in Belgium. That movement, which began in reaction to a planned fuel tax increase — presented as an environmental measure — has been at odds with concerns about the climate.“We need a climate policy that is positive for the environment, but also one that is positive for the purchasing power of the families,” Mr. Michel said.In France, few students have skipped school to protest, but an online petition demanding climate action by the government has gathered more than 2.1 million signatures. On the Place de la République in Paris last Sunday, protesters debated how to force climate change into President Emmanuel Macron’s nationwide dialogue in response to the Yellow Vests.In both movements, there are people who argue that the fights against inequality and climate should not conflict.“One shouldn’t think that the Yellow Vests aren’t mindful of ecology, of the planet,” said Ingrid Levavasseur, 31, a Yellow Vest protester who is running for a seat in the European Parliament.In Germany on Friday, about 3,500 high school and university students gathered in Munich under the banner “Fridays for Future.”In Berlin, about 10,000 climate activists with signs like “It’s our future you are playing with” and “Climate S.O.S.” demonstrated in front of the Ministry of Economics and Technology, joined by the Chinese dissident artist Ai Weiwei.“We tell people, dress warmly, because we are only getting started,” said Luisa Neubauer, 22, a university student who helps organize the Berlin protests.On Friday morning, organizers met with the economics minister, Peter Altmaier, and members of the government’s coal commission. The next day, the commission recommended ending the use of coal to generate electricity by 2038.In Brussels, Liam, 18, who was protesting for the third Thursday in a row, said there was “a growing momentum” in the movement, but he wondered if it should be more disruptive to draw more attention.“Most adults probably think it’s cute that children protest,” he said. “But maybe we should change the timing of the protests to rush hour.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Keith Schneider and Katharine Q. SeelyeJohn D. Dingell Jr., a powerful and tenacious Michigan Democrat who pushed landmark legislation, exposed corruption in government and became the longest-serving member of Congress in American history, died on Thursday at his home in Dearborn, Mich. He was 92.His wife, Representative Debbie Dingell, announced the death in a statement. She won election to his seat after Mr. Dingell, at 87, announced his retirement in 2014. She said this week that she was remaining at home with her husband, whose health had been failing. He had been under treatment for prostate cancer.Mr. Dingell (pronounced DING-gull) had represented what is now Michigan’s 12th district, outside Detroit, since the Eisenhower administration, a 59-year run. But when he announced that he would not seek re-election, he said he was stepping down because he no longer recognized the institution he loved. Bitter partisanship, he said, was preventing the House from getting anything done. “I find serving in the House to be obnoxious,” he told The Detroit News.Mr. Dingell, physically imposing at 6-foot-3 and 200 pounds and intimidating many with his booming voice, was one of the last of the old bulls, a cadre of powerful Democratic House committee chairmen who had risen through the seniority system to wield absolute control of their fiefs. Like the other old bulls, he used his position to protect his hometown interests — in his case, the automobile industry. Some called him the most powerful man in Washington who had never become president.He joined the House on Dec. 13, 1955, filling the seat of his father, John Dingell Sr., who was first elected in 1932 and died in office after serving 22 years. With Ms. Dingell now occupying the seat, someone in the Dingell family has represented southeast Michigan for almost 90 years.John Dingell Jr. became the longest-serving House member in February 2009, surpassing the record set in the early 1990s by Jamie L. Whitten, a Mississippi Democrat. He became the longest-tenured member in the history of all of Congress on June 7, 2013, when he passed the record set by Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, who died in office in 2010.“The story of John Dingell in Congress is the story of the hopes and dreams of the American people for the past 50 years,” former Senator Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said in a statement in 2005 honoring his friend and colleague. “John fought to pass Medicare — and he won. He fought to pass Medicaid — and he won. He fought for civil rights — and he won. He fought for the Endangered Species Act and the Clean Air Act — and he won.”Tenacity was indeed a hallmark of Mr. Dingell’s political career, as was a forcefulness that earned him admirers as well as critics.When he was chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee from 1981 to 1995, and again after the 2006 election put Democrats back in power, his unusually vast portfolio allowed him to shape policy affecting energy, the environment, health, telecommunications, transportation, financial services and consumer protection.The committee handled nearly half of all bills before the House each year.His influence was magnified because at the same time, he was chairman of the committee’s oversight and investigations subcommittee, and it was from this perch that he made his true mark.With prosecutorial zeal, he would fire off “Dingell-grams” to government agencies he was investigating. He also could issue subpoenas and hold hearings, and he exercised that power to maximum effectAmong his achievements were enhancing the safety of blood banks, bottled water and pacemakers and exposing waste, fraud and abuse throughout the federal government.In the early 1980s, his committee uncovered slack procurement procedures at the Pentagon, including its payment of $640 for a toilet seat. It also confirmed allegations of conflicts of interest within the Environmental Protection Agency, forcing the resignation of Anne Gorsuch Burford, President Ronald Reagan’s first E.P.A. administrator.Mr. Dingell’s inquiries led to the criminal conviction of, among others, Michael K. Deaver, one of President Reagan’s top advisers, for lying under oath regarding Mr. Deaver’s lobbying activities after he left the White House.The committee also exposed General Dynamics, a major Pentagon contractor, for giving thousands of dollars worth of gifts to prominent military figures, including $67,000 in gifts to Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, the father of the nuclear Navy.Mr. Dingell’s reach — some called it overreach — extended to the scientific community, and he was sometimes accused of acting as “the science police.” His aggressive tactics unsettled many in Washington, and not all of his investigations were successful.In the early 1990s, Mr. Dingell engaged in an epic battle with David Baltimore, a Nobel laureate, over allegations of faked research in a paper that Dr. Baltimore had co-written. Dr. Baltimore was not accused of fraud but of misplaced loyalty to his co-author, and the controversy forced him to resign as president of Rockefeller University in 1991. In 1996 he was vindicated by an appeals board at the National Institutes of Health; the scientific community widely agreed that the paper contained errors, but that it had not been intentionally fraudulent. Bernadine Healy, then the director of the N.I.H., was among those who dared to chastise Mr. Dingell publicly, accusing him of using his “virtually unchecked power to investigate, prosecute and judge” his targets while running roughshod over due process. The Washington Post editorialized that “congressional chivvying of this kind,” with Mr. Dingell appearing “to be persecuting Dr. Baltimore for no purpose,” would not bring about constructive change.Back in Michigan, Mr. Dingell served the politically disparate needs of his district, which spanned the blue-collar, Roman Catholic neighborhoods of autoworkers in Monroe and Wayne Counties and the tony neighborhoods surrounding the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. The district was almost all white and heavily Polish (as was Mr. Dingell’s grandfather, who changed the family name from Dzieglewicz).An avid hunter — he kept fish and game trophies in his office, including that of a 500-pound boar he reportedly killed with only a pistol — Mr. Dingell defended the right to bear arms and received an A+ rating from the National Rifle Association, of which he was a member. This put him at odds with many Democrats, particularly gun-control advocates from urban areas like Detroit, but hunting was important to his working-class constituents.14 PhotosView Slide Show ›Similarly, he supported the Vietnam War until 1971, after many Democrats had stopped. And his voting record was largely anti-abortion, with the abortion rights group Naral giving him a 30 percent rating in 2012.At the same time, Mr. Dingell appeased some liberals by supporting civil rights legislation, though he opposed expanding school desegregation to Detroit suburbs via mandatory busing. He supported equal rights for women and some environmental measures.But his chief constituency was the auto industry, and Mr. Dingell was among its most stalwart champions. He viewed taking care of the industry as one of his primary legislative responsibilities. He advocated bailouts of General Motors and Chrysler and long staved off calls for tougher emissions and fuel economy standards.“I am totally unapologetic about that,” he told The New York Times in 1991. “I represent half a million people whose lives are controlled by the good fortune or bad fortune of the auto industry. I was sent down here to look after the welfare of that district and the people I serve.”The industry contributed substantially to his re-election campaigns. And he and his wife accumulated millions in General Motors holdings in the early 2000s through her affiliation with the company — she was an heir to the Fisher brothers, who founded the Fisher Body company and later sold it to General Motors, and for many years a GM lobbyist.This coziness with the industry played a role in his losing the chairmanship of the energy committee: In a devastating defeat for Mr. Dingell, a younger colleague, Representative Henry Waxman of California, toppled him in 2008. Opponents had argued that Mr. Dingell, then 82, was too protective of the industry and moving too slowly on related issues like climate change.Still, Mr. Dingell had a strong record on other environmental matters. The League of Conservation Voters and other environmental organizations credited him with helping to pass the 1964 Wilderness Act, the 1969 National Environmental Policy Act, the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts of the 1970s, the 1980 Superfund law, statutes protecting marine mammals and bans on ocean dumping. (The Clean Air Act was passed only after Mr. Dingell had bottled it up for 10 years.)“I’ve gotten more legislation passed on conservation and the environment than anybody else in this place,” Mr. Dingell boasted in an interview with The New York Times in 2007. “I know how to build legislation from the center.”John David Dingell Jr. was born on July 8, 1926, in Colorado Springs, where his parents had gone to search for a cure for his father’s tuberculosis. They soon moved back to Michigan, and John Sr. won his House seat. His wife, Grace (Bigler) Dingell, raised John Jr. and his siblings in Detroit and Washington.John Jr. spent much of his childhood and teenage years on Capitol Hill, serving five years, from 1938 to 1943, as a House page. He was on the House floor on Dec. 8, 1941, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt told a joint session of Congress that the day before, when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor, was “a date which will live in infamy.”When he turned 18, Mr. Dingell joined the Army in 1944; he rose to second lieutenant. The following year he was supposed to be in the first wave of soldiers in Japan. “I had my orders to go when Truman dropped the bomb on the Japanese, and that ended World War II,” he said in a 2006 oral interview with the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United States Senate.Back in Washington, Mr. Dingell earned an undergraduate degree in chemistry from Georgetown University and a law degree from Georgetown Law School, graduating in 1952. He worked as a forest ranger, a Wayne County prosecutor and briefly as a private lawyer before winning his father’s congressional seat, in what was then the 15th District, when he was 29.Mr. Dingell’s first marriage, to Helen Henebry in 1952, ended in divorce two decades later. In 1981, he married Deborah Insley.In addition to his wife, he is survived by three children from his first marriage: Christopher D. Dingell, a former state senator and Michigan circuit court judge; John D. Dingell III; and Jennifer Dingell. His daughter Jeanne Lagodka died in 2015. He is also survived by a brother, James V. Dingell Sr.; a sister, Jule Walowac; and three grandchildren.Among the many causes he promoted, Mr. Dingell was especially proud of his work on health care. This stemmed from his father’s efforts to help introduce the first national health insurance bill in 1943. It never passed.When John Dingell Jr. took his father’s seat, he continued that quest for national health insurance. On the first day of each new Congress, Mr. Dingell introduced a bill to create a Medicare program to provide health insurance for older adults, as his father had sought. When Medicare finally came up for a vote in 1965, Mr. Dingell was given the gavel and the honor, in memory of his father, of presiding over the House.“America was built on the shoulders of great leaders like John Dingell,” former Secretary of State James A. Baker said in a statement, adding, “No one fought harder for their constituents or causes than the Big Truck, as John was known. But although he was a partisan Democrat and I am a partisan Republican, the two of us shared a genuine friendship based on our mutual love of country, politics and hunting.”Former President Barack Obama recalled Mr. Dingell’s push for universal health care. “Because of him,” he said in a statement on Thursday night, “we’ve come closer to that vision than ever before. And when we finally achieve it — and we will — we’ll all owe him our gratitude.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The state of California filed a lawsuit on Friday seeking to force two federal agencies to provide data they used to justify rolling back landmark Obama-era vehicle emission standards, accusing the Trump administration of "willfully withholding" information.In a lawsuit filed in U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C., California Attorney General Xavier Becerra said the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Environmental Protection Agency failed to respond to a Freedom of Information Act request seeking data and analysis backing their proposal to freeze federal vehicle emission standards at 2020 levels through 2026.In addition to weaker fuel efficiency standards, the Trump administration proposal would strip California of the ability to impose stricter rules, which a dozen other states have adopted.In 2011, California had agreed to harmonize its emissions with the Obama administration's vehicle emissions requirements through 2025."This lawsuit will break down their silence and secrecy," said Mary Nichols, chair of the California Air Resources Board. "The public has a right to see all the facts and analysis used to support a rollback that increases oil consumption, hurts consumers, and pumps more air pollution and hundreds of million tons of climate-changing gases into the atmosphere.”The two federal agencies did not immediately comment.The Obama-era rules called for a fleetwide fuel efficiency average of 46.7 miles per gallon by 2026, compared with 37 mpg under the Trump administration's preferred option. The lawsuit is the latest escalation in the feud between California and the Trump administration over vehicle emission standards.In February, the White House ended negotiations with California over the plans to freeze fuel rules and pressured automakers to back their efforts.California and 19 other states demanded the Trump administration abandon its proposal. States sued last year over the EPA's decision to revisit its January 2017 determination the 2025 rules were feasible. Automakers like General Motors Co, Ford Motor Co and Toyota Motor Corp oppose a freeze but want requirements reduced to account for changes in oil prices and consumer demand.The EPA is on track to release final emissions rules by "spring or early summer," Administrator Andrew Wheeler told reporters on Thursday. Wheeler hopes California will not sue EPA once it releases final requirements, but if it does he suggested California do it quickly "to ensure regulatory certainty."AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — With release of the special counsel's fuller report looming, President Donald Trump and his campaign are twisting the words of his attorney general and the facts of the Russia investigation.His 2020 campaign is telling supporters in fundraising pitches that Attorney General William Barr had revealed illegal spying against Trump during the 2016 presidential race. But it's not true. While Barr told lawmakers that he believed spying took place, he never concluded it was illegal and made clear several times he was not suggesting a crime had occurred.Meanwhile, Trump kept up his refrain that special counsel Robert Mueller had totally exonerated him despite Mueller's exact quotes in Barr's summary that he did not. A redacted version of Mueller's full report is expected in the coming days.The misstatements were among a number of factual faux pas and flips in rhetoric this past week.With his government seeking to prosecute WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, Trump seemed to draw a blank on a hacking organization he praised to the rafters during the 2016 campaign because of the discomfort it caused his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton.And speaking before Monday's tax filing deadline, Trump seemed to change the grounds upon which he is refusing to release his taxes: It's not because he can't, but because he doesn't want to.A look at the claims:RUSSIA INVESTIGATIONTRUMP CAMPAIGN: "Just this week, Attorney General William Barr said what the President has thought all along, he believes 'unlawful spying did occur' against Donald J. Trump's presidential campaign." — fundraising email sent Saturday to Trump supporters.TRUMP CAMPAIGN: "AG Barr believes the Obama Admin illegally spied on Pres Trump." — text sent Friday to Trump supporters.THE FACTS: The email puts words in Barr's mouth and seeks to raise money in doing so.Barr never said there was illegal spying.During a Senate hearing Wednesday, the attorney general actually made clear he had no specific evidence to cite that any surveillance was illegal or improper."I think spying did occur," Barr told lawmakers. "But the question is whether it was adequately predicated and I'm not suggesting it wasn't adequately predicated, but I need to explore that."He later added: "I am not saying that improper surveillance occurred. I am saying that I am concerned about it and looking into it."___TRUMP: "I've been totally exonerated. No collusion. No obstruction." — remarks Wednesday at the White House.TRUMP: "I'm not concerned about anything, because frankly there was no collusion and there was no obstruction." — remarks Thursday with South Korea's president.THE FACTS: Barr's four-page summary of Mueller's nearly 400-page report did not "totally" exonerate Trump. Mueller specifically states in the report, as quoted by Barr: "While this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him."The summary of principal conclusions by Barr, released in late March, notes Mueller did not "draw a conclusion — one way or the other — as to whether the examined conduct constituted obstruction," but rather set out evidence for both sides, leaving the question unanswered of whether Trump obstructed justice. Barr said ultimately he decided as attorney general that the evidence developed by Mueller was "not sufficient" to establish, for the purposes of prosecution, that Trump committed obstruction.In Senate testimony Wednesday, Barr acknowledged that Mueller did not ask him to draw a conclusion on the obstruction question, nor did he know whether Mueller agreed with him. Barr said he would be able to explain more fully after releasing a public version of Mueller's report.___WIKILEAKSTRUMP, asked if he still "loves" WikiLeaks: "I know nothing about WikiLeaks. It's not my thing." — remarks Thursday with South Korea's president.THE FACTS: WikiLeaks was very much Trump's thing in the final weeks of the 2016 campaign, when candidate Trump showered praise on the anti-secrecy organization night after night.On the same October day that the "Access Hollywood" tape emerged, revealing that Trump had bragged in 2005 about groping women, WikiLeaks began releasing damaging emails from Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta. Trump and his allies seized on the dumps and weaponized them."WikiLeaks, I love WikiLeaks," Trump said in Pennsylvania."This WikiLeaks is like a treasure trove," Trump said in Michigan."Boy, I love reading WikiLeaks," Trump said in Ohio.All told, Trump extolled WikiLeaks more than 100 times, and a poster of Assange hung backstage at the Republican's debate war room. At no point from a rally stage did Trump express any misgivings about how WikiLeaks obtained the emails from the Clinton campaign or about the accusations of stealing sensitive U.S. government information, which led to the charges against Assange on Thursday. The U.S. is seeking Assange's extradition from Britain.Asked Sunday about Trump's claim he knew nothing about Wikileaks, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders told Fox News the president "was making a joke during the campaign and was talking about the specifics of the case at that moment."___TAX RETURNSTRUMP: "As you know, I got elected last time with this same issue. ... I would love to give them, but I'm not going to do it while I'm under audit." — remarks Wednesday to reporters at the White House.THE FACTS: Nothing's preventing Trump from releasing his tax returns.Being under audit is no legal bar to anyone releasing his or her returns.Asked repeatedly at a House hearing Tuesday whether any regulation prohibited a taxpayer from disclosing returns when under audit, IRS Commissioner Charles Rettig responded "no."Trump declined to provide his tax information as a candidate in 2016 and as president, something party nominees have traditionally done in the name of the transparency. By withholding his tax returns, Trump has not followed the standard followed by presidents since Richard Nixon started the practice in 1969. During the campaign, Trump said he wanted to release his returns but because he was under a routine audit, "I can't."After the November midterm elections, Trump claimed at a news conference that the filings are too complex for people to understand.___JOB APPROVALTRUMP, tweeting a Fox Business Network graphic showing his "soaring approval" at 55% overall: "Great news! #MAGA" — tweet Thursday.THE FACTS: The graphic on the Georgetown University poll was incorrect: The poll found 55% had an "unfavorable" rating of Trump, not his job approval, from a different poll question. Fox Business issued an on-air correction but Trump's tweet remains.___CLIMATE CHANGETRUMP: "We withdrew the United States from the one-sided Paris climate accord, where you don't do any more drilling for oil and gas. That was going to cost us a lot of money. No more oil and gas with the Paris accord. That's good for Paris, but that's not good for us. Right?" — remarks Wednesday at a ceremony for the signing of executive orders meant to accelerate pipeline construction.THE FACTS: Wrong. The Paris accord does not ban any form of energy development. It does not impose emission caps on signatory countries. The accord is a set of voluntary targets determined by individual nations.___IMMIGRATIONTRUMP: "Mexico must apprehend all illegals and not let them make the long march up to the United States, or we will have no other choice than to Close the Border and/or institute Tariffs. Our Country is FULL!" — tweet April 7.THE FACTS: Despite the overwhelmed southern border, there's plenty of room in the United States. Dozens of countries have greater population density. It's only full in terms of the people Trump doesn't want.His claim of a U.S. with no vacancies for more immigrants is at odds with his own statement two months ago that encouraged "the largest" influx of legal immigrants ever. It also belies a U.S. reality of aging baby boomers and falling birth rates, which make immigrants increasingly important to sustain a level of population growth for the U.S. economy to keep expanding.The nation's population growth is at its lowest since 1937, with the 18-and-under population declining both nationally and in 29 states, according to William H. Frey of the Brookings Institution. Economists say that restricting immigration would probably weaken economic growth. A shrinking labor force could also harm the health and stability of safety net programs such as Social Security and Medicare.Trump himself seemed to acknowledge the realities during his State of the Union address in February, declaring, "I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally." He's now describing a U.S. bursting at the seams, unable to take any immigrants, including those seeking legal asylum.Immigrants as a whole make up a greater percentage of the total U.S. population than they did back in 1970, having grown from less than 5 percent of the population to more than 13 percent now. In 2030, it's projected that immigrants will become the primary driver for U.S. population growth, overtaking U.S. births.___TRUMP on separating migrant children from their parents when caught crossing into the U.S. illegally: "I'm the one that stopped it. President Obama had child separation." — remarks to reporters Tuesday.THE FACTS: No, he's the one who started it on a broad scale. He instituted a "zero tolerance" policy aimed at criminally prosecuting all adults caught crossing into the U.S. illegally. That meant detention for adults and the removal of their children while their parents were in custody. During the Obama administration and the early Trump administration, such family separations were the exception. They became the rule under his policy. He suspended the practice in June because of a public uproar.___TRUMP on the family separations: "President Obama had the law. We changed the law, and I think the press should accurately report it but of course they won't." — remarks to reporters Tuesday.THE FACTS: This is false. Trump did not achieve any change in the law.Trump's zero-tolerance policy was of his own making. His administration is operating under the same immigration laws as Obama's.During the Obama administration and before Trump's zero-tolerance policy was introduced, migrant families caught illegally entering the U.S. were usually referred for civil deportation proceedings, not requiring separation, unless they were known to have a criminal record. Then and now, immigration officials may take a child from a parent in certain cases, such as serious criminal charges against a parent, concerns over the health and welfare of a child or medical concerns.___ENERGY and ENVIRONMENTTRUMP: "We have the cleanest air and water, they say, in the world. We are the best."— remarks Wednesday at the signing of orders on pipelines.THE FACTS: Not true about air.U.S. drinking water is among the best by one leading measure.Trump's own Environmental Protection Agency data show that in 2017, among 35 major U.S. cities, there were 729 cases of "unhealthy days for ozone and fine particle pollution." That's up 22 percent from 2014 and the worst year since 2012. Findings for 2018 are incomplete.The State of Global Air 2019 report by the Health Effects Institute rated the U.S. as having the eighth cleanest air for particle pollution — which kills 85,000 Americans each year — behind Canada, Scandinavian countries and others.The U.S. ranks poorly on smog pollution, which kills 24,000 Americans per year. On a scale from the cleanest to the dirtiest, the U.S. is at 123 out of 195 countries measured.On water, Yale University's global Environmental Performance Index finds 10 countries tied for the cleanest drinking water, the U.S. among them. On environmental quality overall, the U.S. was 27th, behind a variety of European countries, Canada, Japan, Australia and more. Switzerland was No. 1.___TRUMP: "With the help of the incredible workers in this room, the United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere in the world, anywhere on the planet. Not even close. Made a lot of progress in the last two and a half years, haven't we? Huh? Took down a lot of barriers." — signing ceremony.THE FACTS: As he's done many times before, Trump is crediting himself with things that happened under Obama.Here's what the government's U.S. Energy Information Administration says: "The United States has been the world's top producer of natural gas since 2009, when U.S. natural gas production surpassed that of Russia, and the world's top producer of petroleum hydrocarbons since 2013, when U.S. production exceeded Saudi Arabia's."As for crude oil specifically, the information agency says the U.S. became the world's top crude oil producer last year. That is largely attributed to the shale oil boom that began during the Obama administration, which has sent production from the Permian Basin in the southwest surging.___TRUMP: "Under this administration, we have ended the war on American energy like never before." — signing ceremony.THE FACTS: It wasn't much of a war. U.S. petroleum and natural gas production has increased by nearly 60% since 2008, according to the Energy Information Administration, achieving pre-eminence during the Obama administration. That said, the Trump administration is more closely aligned with fossil fuel interests as it works to restrain environmental obstacles and the power of states to stand in the way of pipelines and other energy development.___Associated Press writers Zeke Miller, Jonathan Lemire, Mary Clare Jalonick, Ellen Knickmeyer and Seth Borenstein in Washington and Nomaan Merchant in Houston contributed to this report.AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader points to the lasting impact of a treaty signed nearly 100 years ago.To the Editor:The main reason for what is happening in Hungary (“Hungary’s Autocracy Beneath a Patina of Democracy,” news article, Dec. 26) is the alienation and anger Hungarians feel toward Western Europe and the European Union.The cause of this anger is Europe’s failure to do anything to correct the terrible injustice that occurred at the end of World War I through the Treaty of Trianon, when this kingdom, over a thousand years old, was dismembered. This occurred not because Hungary was on the wrong side in the war but because Central Europe was getting too strong and could no longer be dominated by the French and the British. President Woodrow Wilson rightly opposed the Trianon Treaty; he felt that strangers should not be allowed to redraw the borders in Central Europe and overnight turn millions of Hungarians into foreigners in the towns that were built by their fathers.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A key Senate committee approved U.S. President Donald Trump's pick to lead the Department of Interior on Thursday, putting former energy lobbyist David Bernhardt closer to becoming the permanent head of the agency that oversees public lands.The Republican-controlled energy and natural resources committee voted 14 to 6 in favor of advancing Bernhardt's nomination. A full Senate vote must now be scheduled to complete his confirmation. He is currently serving as DOI's acting secretary.Bernhardt cleared the committee vote, as expected, despite concerns raised by some Democratic lawmakers and environmental groups about his conflicts of interest as a former lobbyist representing companies affected by Interior department regulations.The Interior Department’s Office of Inspector General is reviewing allegations that Bernhardt violated ethics rules by getting involved in issues that affect his former clients.Democratic Senator Ron Wyden urged colleagues not to vote for Bernhardt until the watchdog agency has reviewed the allegations but Senate energy panel chair Lisa Murkowski said the acting secretary was being attacked by political opponents."I think its very clear you have well-funded groups that are working hard, working energetically against his nomination," she said ahead of the vote.Democratic senators Joe Manchin and Martin Heinrich, as well as Angus King, an independent who usually votes with Democrats, voted to back Bernhardt.A recent report by the New York Times said that Bernhardt had intervened to promote policies sought by a former client, agribusiness firm Westlands Water District, including weakening of Endangered Species Act protections for an imperiled fish when he should have recused himself.Bernhardt has said he followed Interior ethics guidelines.Wyden said after previous Secretary Ryan Zinke resigned from Interior amid ethics investigations, the committee should focus on "restoring honor and integrity to the office of interior secretary."Several coastal state senators concerned about Interior's upcoming proposal to open up vast swaths of federal waters to offshore drilling are expected to ask Bernhardt for assurances that their state coastlines will be left out of the plan.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow on Wednesday said the Trump administration would soon issue an executive order that would open the door for more natural gas pipelines and exports of liquefied natural gas, or LNG. The administration, which is pushing a policy it calls energy dominance, has been considering an order that would push back against states, including New York, that have blocked interstate natural gas pipelines. Kudlow said the executive order would open the way for pipelines and LNG at an event hosted by the Christian Science Monitor news outlet. New York has blocked pipelines that would take natural gas from Pennsylvania to New England, which means the region sometimes needs imports of LNG. Early last year, a tanker carrying LNG from a project in Russia's Arctic arrived in Boston Harbor to satisfy demand during a cold snap. It was unclear how the order would overrule the authority of states to rule on pipelines.Several politicians in New York, including Governor Andrew Cuomo, have said they want energy companies to focus more on renewable power sources and energy efficiency, instead of building more gas and other fossil fuel-fired power plants and infrastructure.New York State in recent years blocked the construction of several pipelines that would transport fracked natural gas from the Marcellus shale in Pennsylvania to New England, including Williams Cos Inc's Constitution and Northeast Supply Enhancement and National Fuel Gas Co's (NFG) Northern Access. In those cases, New York regulators denied the pipelines on environmental grounds. Trump has attempted to use an executive order to jumpstart TransCanada Inc's long-delayed Keystone XL crude oil pipeline, signing an order just two days after assuming office in 2017. But that did not save the pipeline from getting bogged down in the courts and last week he issued another order seeking to breathe life into the project.Meanwhile an independent federal agency has taken some steps that could help gas pipelines in New York.The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) determined last year that New York regulators waived their right to decide on a water quality certification for NFG's Northern Access project because the state waited too long. FERC this week denied New York's request to rehear that decision. AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — The United Nations' shipping agency is working on tougher measures to clamp down on rogue shipping companies trying to use flag registries fraudulently to conceal their activities, officials said.All commercial ships have to be registered - flagged in a particular country - partly to comply with safety and environmental laws.With international and U.S. sanctions imposed on countries including North Korea, Iran and Syria, some ships involved in such trade have used tactics to sidestep the measures including turning off their location transponders and falsely reporting their flag registry, also to secure insurance. Drug and weapon smuggling are among other areas of trade in which front companies attempt to conceal their activities to avoid being detected. The International Maritime Organization (IMO) agreed on a series of measures after a committee session last week which included the creation of a comprehensive database of registries and ways to improve information on the illegal registration of ships, the IMO said. Other recommendations included enhanced verification of vessels through their unique IMO numbers and adherence to the requirement for an onboard record of a ship's history. The IMO will also work with the U.N. Security Council to create a searchable database that would show vessels subject to U.N. resolutions. The work is expected to be completed in 2021. "Experience has shown that the raison d'être of fraudulent registries is to conceal illicit activity on board vessels, including activities prohibited by United Nations sanctions," the United States said in one submission to the IMO. Multiple countries have reported to the IMO that their registries had been used without the knowledge of the maritime authority for fraudulent purposes through fake documents or even maintaining the flag after it had been terminated.Tanzania said it had experienced more than 20 cases of the fraudulent use of its flag since 2016, discovered after collaboration with other countries.Ukraine, meanwhile, says shipments from Crimea violate Western sanctions and has complained to the IMO, asking member states to de-list any vessels involved. Crimea has been under Western sanctions since Russia annexed it from Ukraine in 2014.In a statement to the IMO, Vitalii Moshkivskyi, Ukraine’s deputy permanent representative, pointed to "more than 80 ships unlawfully registered in the closed seaports in Crimea". Moshkivskyi said such activity had "grave implications for the safety and security of navigation". AdvertisementSupported byBy Natasha SingerFord Motor Company said on Thursday that it was investigating how it tested the emissions and fuel efficiency of its vehicles after employees reported possible flaws with the company’s computer models.The company said it had notified the Environmental Protection Agency about the issue and had hired a law firm, Sidley Austin, to investigate specifications it used in the testing.Kim Pittel, group vice president for sustainability, environment and safety engineering at Ford, said that the investigation had not indicated, so far, that the company reported incorrect data to consumers or regulators.“We’re early days into the investigation,” Ms. Pittel said in a telephone interview. “But there has been no determination that this affected fuel economy labels or emissions certification.”She added that the investigation did not involve hardware or software known as “defeat devices” that are designed to cheat on emissions tests. Volkswagen admitted in 2015 that it had equipped millions of cars with such cheating systems, a scandal that ultimately cost the company more than $32 billion in government fines and legal settlements.Ms. Pittel said a few employees had raised concerns last September about calculations used in testing cars for fuel economy ratings and emissions certifications. She added that Ford regularly validated its computer modeling by road-testing its vehicles.In a statement, Ford said it had identified potential problems with its calculations and was evaluating vehicles, starting with the 2019 Ranger, a pickup truck. The company also said it was hiring an independent lab to conduct further testing.Ford has run into trouble in the past for overstating the fuel efficiency of its vehicles. In 2013 and 2014, it lowered the gas mileage ratings on several hybrid cars by one to seven miles per gallon.The E.P.A. said in a statement that Ford’s “investigation is ongoing and the information too incomplete” for the agency to draw any conclusions. “We take the potential issues seriously and are following up with the company to fully understand the circumstances behind this disclosure,” the agency said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Coral DavenportWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency on Thursday said it will start work by the end of the year on a long-awaited plan to set national drinking-water limits for two harmful chemicals linked to cancer, low infant birth weight and other health issues.But environmentalists and Democratic lawmakers criticized the plan, saying it in effect delayed desperately needed regulation on a clear public health threat from chemicals that are commonly used in cookware, pizza boxes, stain repellents and fire retardants. E.P.A. officials described their proposal as the “first-ever nationwide action plan” to address the health effects of human-made chemicals known as poly- and perfluoroalkyl substances, or PFASs. There currently no federal regulations on the production or monitoring of that class of about 5,000 chemicals, which are manufactured and used in a wide variety of industries and products. Studies have shown that they can linger in the human body for years, causing harmful health impacts.“The PFAS action plan is the most comprehensive action plan for a chemical of concern ever undertaken by the agency,” said Dave Ross, E.P.A.’s assistant administrator for water, in a telephone call with reporters on Thursday. Andrew Wheeler, the E.P.A.’s acting administrator, who is now President Trump’s nominee to head the agency, called the plan a “pivotal moment in the history of the agency.”The American Chemistry Council, an industry lobbying group, voiced support for the plan. “We continue to support strong national leadership in addressing PFAS and firmly believe that E.P.A. is best positioned to provide the public with a comprehensive strategy informed by a full understanding of the safety and benefits of different PFAS chemistries,” it said in a statement.Critics called on the agency to move more quickly, citing 2016 action by the Obama administration on two of the chemicals that suggested the urgency of the risk.“While E.P.A. acts with the utmost urgency to repeal regulations, the agency ambles with complacency when it comes to taking real steps to protect the water we drink and the air we breathe,” said Senator Tom Carper of Delaware, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Environment Committee.After a public outcry over tests showing dangerous levels of PFASs in communities around the United States, particularly around military bases and fire stations, the E.P.A. under the Obama administration in 2016 proposed creating a national standard for limiting the levels in drinking water of two of the most prevalent varieties of PFAS chemicals, known as PFOA and PFOS.It also issued a health advisory recommending that water utilities and public health officials monitor levels of the two chemicals in public water supplies, and notify the public if the combined levels of those chemicals reached 70 parts per trillion. A draft report released last year by the Department of Health and Human Services recommended that the “minimal risk level” for exposure to those two chemicals should be less than half that amount.Given the available data on the effect of PFAS chemicals, environmentalists criticized the E.P.A.’s response as inadequate to the threat.Scott Faber, an expert on chemical policy with the Environmental Working Group, an advocacy organization, called it a “drinking water crisis facing millions of Americans.” But the E.P.A., he said, is “just not treating the crisis the way it deserves.”In particular, critics of the E.P.A. have sited the role of Nancy Beck, a former senior director of regulatory science policy at the American Chemistry Council, in a slowdown of the agency’s response to addressing PFASs. Last May, Scott Pruitt, the previous administrator of the E.P.A., convened a summit aimed at addressing the threat of PFAS chemicals, an announced that, as a first step, the E.P.A. would decide whether to set a national drinking water standard for PFOA and PFOS. Mr. Wheeler said Thursday that the agency intends to act quickly to begin that regulatory process.“Our goal is to close the gap on the science as quickly as possible,” he said, adding that the agency is also looking into technology to clean or reduce PFAS chemicals from drinking water.But Mr. Wheeler did not offer a clear timeline of when such a standard might be completed. Such regulatory processes can often take years. Mr. Carper suggested that the E.P.A.’s failure to provide a clear timeline on completing the standard could influence the outcome of Mr. Wheeler’s Senate confirmation vote to lead the E.P.A., although given the Republican majority in the Senate, his confirmation is still likely assured.“I urge Mr. Wheeler to reverse course and treat this public health threat with the urgency it deserves,” Mr. Carper said. “And I ask my colleagues in the Senate to take note of Mr. Wheeler’s lack of urgency in addressing this threat as they consider his nomination to be E.P.A.’s permanent administrator.”For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - U.S. presidential candidate Elizabeth Warren said on Monday she would ban all fossil fuel extraction on federal land and in coastal waters, setting herself apart from a crowded field of Democratic hopefuls who have made climate change a central campaign issue but have yet to outline specific policies.Warren said in a post on Medium that she would sign an executive order on her first day in office for a "total moratorium on all new fossil fuel leases including for drilling offshore and on public lands." "We must not allow corporations to pillage our public lands and leave taxpayers to clean up the mess," she wrote.Warren's stance on public lands contrasts starkly with that of President Donald Trump, whose Interior Department has sped up permitting for drilling and mining on public lands as a part of the administration's "energy dominance" agenda.The United States approved nearly 40 percent more oil and gas drilling permits on public lands in 2018 compared to previous years, and has moved to roll back environmental regulations to speed up more approvals.The Interior Department is also expected in the coming weeks to announce a new five year plan for drilling on the Outercontinental Shelf that would open up vasts swaths of U.S. coastline to oil and gas exploration.Warren said that any "serious effort" to combat climate change needs to include public lands since fossil fuel extraction from these areas account for a quarter of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions.Several Democratic candidates, Senators Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris and others have announced support for a proposed Green New Deal - a loosely-woven climate action policy to address concerns about jobs and wages as part of a radical shift away from fossil fuels and the building of a new low-carbon economy.But only Warren so far has announced how public lands will play a role in drastically cutting global carbon dioxide emissions, which have climbed to an all-time high.As part of her plan she said she would reinstate regulations targeting methane emissions from oil and gas projects, as well as create a 21st Century Civilian Conservation Corps, a one-year fellowship program for young people who want to work in conservation.Warren also said she would expand renewable energy projects on federal lands.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — The Interior Department's internal investigators have begun probing allegations of conflicts of interest involving Interior Secretary David Bernhardt, they confirmed Monday, just four days after the Senate confirmed the former corporate lobbyist to lead the agency.Deputy Interior Inspector General Mary Kendall wrote Democratic Sen. Ron Wyden of Oregon on Monday that her office had launched the probe to address seven separate ethics allegations leveled against Bernhardt, including one from Wyden.The allegations have centered on charges from Democratic senators, environmental groups and others that Bernhardt was violating ethics standards by involving himself in Interior Department deliberations with his former lobbying clients, including a politically influential California water agency.Interior spokeswoman Faith Vander Voort said in a statement that Bernhardt "is in complete compliance with his ethics agreement and all applicable laws, rules, and regulations."Vander Voort said the allegations had come from "Democratic Members of Congress and DC political organizations" and that the agency's ethics office already had looked into many of the allegations and absolved Bernhardt.Announcement of the probe came on Bernhardt's second full day as interior secretary. He won Senate confirmation to the post Thursday over objections of several Democratic lawmakers, who had urged fellow senators to wait to vote on his appointment until Interior's inspector general's office had addressed the various ethics allegations.Bernhardt had been acting secretary of Interior — it oversees the nation's public resources, including oil and gas leases on public lands — since President Donald Trump's first appointee as secretary, Ryan Zinke, announced his resignation amid separate ethics allegations in December.Trump initially appointed Bernhardt in April 2017 to serve as Zinke's deputy.Sen. Tom Udall, a New Mexico Democrat, and other lawmakers in March had asked Interior's watchdog officials to look into allegations that Bernhardt and other agency officials were violating their written ethics pledges by involving themselves in regulatory matters concerning recent former clients."The American public deserves to have the basic confidence that their Interior Secretary is looking out for their interests - protecting public land, species, the air and the water — and not the interests of former industry clients," Udall said in a statement Monday.Bernhardt had been head of the natural resources division at the lobbying and law firm Brownstein Hyatt Farber Schreck. He represented oil and gas companies, California's Westlands Water District and dozens of other clients, many with business before Interior.AdvertisementSupported byBy Kirk JohnsonSEATTLE — Leslie Christian recently added unusual language to her living will: After death, she hoped her remains would be reduced to soil and spread around to help out some flowers, or a tree. In essence, compost.“It seems really gentle,” said Ms. Christian, 71, a financial adviser. “Comforting and natural.”A bill before the Washington State Legislature would make this state the first in the nation — and probably the world, legal experts said — to explicitly allow human remains to be disposed of and reduced to soil through composting, or what the bill calls recomposition.The prospect has drawn no public opponents in the state capital as yet, but it is a concept that sometimes raises eyebrows. Funeral directors say a common reaction to the idea, which has been explored and tested in recent scientific studies, is to cringe.“There’s almost a revulsion at times, when you talk about human composting,” said Brian Flowers, the managing funeral director at Moles Farewell Tributes, a company north of Seattle that supports the bill.In truth, composting is an ancient and basic method of body disposal. A corpse in the ground without embalming chemicals or a coffin, or in a quickly biodegradable coffin, becomes soil over time.But death certificates in many states include a box that must be checked for burial or cremation, with no other options. Aboveground composting, through a mortuary process that requires no burial or burning of remains, is a new category without regulation about how it should be done or what can be done with the compost. What that means is that hardly any funeral director — even in states where laws about human remains are loosely worded — would risk offering it without state permission.Pete Seeger, the folk singer, crooned about the idea: “If I should die before I wake, all my bone and sinew take. Put them in the compost pile to decompose a little while,” goes the song “In Dead Earnest.”“When radishes and corn you munch you may be having me for lunch.”In America, there are regional patterns to what comes of bodies after death. In the South and Midwest, where religious or cultural traditions run deep, more families opt for caskets and concretes vaults, and fewer choose cremation, experts say. In the Northeast, where family roots sometimes extend back centuries, people often favor burial in local cemeteries alongside ancestors.In the Pacific Northwest, by contrast, death is treated somewhat differently, for reasons that sociologists and religious experts have long pondered. It’s a region where transient newcomers have defined the culture since pioneer days. Church attendance is among the lowest in the nation. Preservation of the environment is a central concern.In Washington State, a larger percentage of residents are cremated than in any other state. Washington has more “green cemeteries,” which encourage a return to nature without manicured lawns and chemicals, than most states; only California and New York have more. And laws allowing physicians to help terminally ill patients hasten their deaths, known as “death with dignity,” were pioneered in the Pacific Northwest.“It’s this interesting combination of environmental sensibility and individual choice,” David C. Sloane, a professor of public policy at the University of Southern California, said of the Northwest region. Now the prospect of legalized human composting, he said, puts many of those regional impulses in a spotlight. “It’s a test case for seeing how people think,” he said.Jamie Pedersen, a Democratic state senator from Seattle, is leading efforts to pass the legislation to permit a composting process after death.Democrats control both chambers of the State Legislature, and Mr. Pedersen, the bill’s sponsor, said he had enlisted support from Republicans as well. Gov. Jay Inslee, a Democrat, has taken no position, a spokeswoman said.At a hearing this month, no one spoke in opposition, though a state association of funeral directors said that it hoped clearer information could be added to the bill about where composted remains could be distributed. It was uncertain, too, whether such a measure would be seen as a priority during a legislative session crowded with issues that may be easier for politicians to talk about and win points on.The bill would also legalize a separate process sometimes known as water cremation or alkaline hydrolysis. Under that process, already legal in 16 states, bodies are dissolved using a mixture of heated water and lye, leaving behind bone fragments and a sterile liquid.People are drawn to the idea of aboveground decomposition mainly for environmental reasons, Mr. Pedersen said. There’s no coffin, no chemicals, none of the fossil fuels that would be needed for cremation, and no expensive cemetery plot required. Some religious traditions also favor ideas of simplicity and of earth returning to earth.Though the process sounds simple, it would not be cheap. Preliminary estimates suggest that it could cost at least $5,000 — less, perhaps, than an elaborate burial service, but more than the most basic cremation.In a study last year at Washington State University, six bodies donated for the research were placed in a closed container, wrapped in organic materials like alfalfa, then bathed in a stream of air warmed by microbes, and periodically turned. Lynne Carpenter-Boggs, a professor of soil science and sustainable agriculture and the lead researcher in the study, said that after about 30 days, the bodies essentially became soil.Fears that composted remains might smell bad or contain toxic elements — from dental fillings, for example, or pharmaceutical residues — were allayed, Dr. Carpenter-Boggs said. She said that the heat generated by micro-organisms broke down organic matter and pathogens, and levels of pollutants like cadmium and mercury were within federal limits.“It certainly is feasible that families would take home a small portion that they could keep for a long time,” Dr. Carpenter-Boggs said. “Or families could bring home a small amount that would be interred into their landscape, placed under a loved one’s favorite tree, similar to what people do with cremains.”Katrina Spade, the founder and chief executive of Recompose, a Seattle company that hopes to build the first facility to use the new method and conduct funeral services based around it, said the movement toward cremation — now used in more than half of deaths in the nation — has led to an erosion of essential rituals. Remains are often just picked up from a crematory, she said, and that’s that.“This is not simply a process to convert bodies to soil; it’s also about bringing ritual and some of that ceremony back,” Ms. Spade said.Ms. Christian, the woman who is hoping recomposition will be an option after she dies, says she has long been uncomfortable with the other choices. She has ruled out burial. And she does not like the idea of cremation because of environmental costs — emissions and climate impacts of fossil fuels used in the burning process. But her friends remain divided on the issue.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheila KaplanDuke University will pay $112.5 million to the federal government to settle allegations that researchers submitted applications and reports containing falsified data to win more than two dozen grants from the National Institutes of Health and the Environmental Protection Agency, the Justice Department said on Monday.“Taxpayers expect and deserve that federal grant dollars will be used efficiently and honestly,” Matthew G.T. Martin, United States attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina, said in a statement. “May this serve as a lesson that the use of false or fabricated data in grant applications or reports is completely unacceptable.”The allegations were initially made in a whistle-blower lawsuit brought by Joseph Thomas, a research analyst who worked in Duke’s pulmonary division. He claimed that another researcher, Erin Potts-Kant, had fabricated data linked to as much as $200 million in federal research grants.Mr. Thomas filed the lawsuit under the False Claims Act, a federal law that allows individuals to sue on behalf of the government. Under the law, the plaintiff may receive a portion of the damages. Mr. Thomas is to receive more than $33 million from the settlement.Neither Mr. Thomas nor Ms. Potts-Kant was immediately available for comment.Although Mr. Thomas’s lawsuit alleged that the fraud occurred between 2006 and 2013, the Justice Department said that the settlement announced Monday resolved allegations covering a longer period, from 2006 to 2018.University officials said on Monday that they discovered the possible research misconduct in 2013, after Ms. Potts-Kant was fired for embezzling funds. Ms. Potts-Kant eventually pleaded guilty to two counts of forgery and paid restitution, the university said.In a statement announcing the settlement, Vincent E. Price, president of Duke University, said that the payment would include reimbursement of the grants obtained as a result of the falsified data, as well as additional penalties.“This is a difficult moment for Duke,” Dr. Price said. “This case demonstrates the devastating impact of research fraud and reinforces the need for all of us to have a focused commitment on promoting research integrity and accountability.”The university has taken steps in recent years to promote ethics in research, he added, including the creation of an office for scientific integrity, requiring mandatory research integrity training for all medical school faculty, and keeping all research data records.AdvertisementSupported byPersonal HealthHave you considered the effects of what you eat on the planet, and made changes that will protect not only the Earth but also your health and the well-being of generations to come?By Jane E. BrodyI suspect most of you already do many things to help preserve the viability of the planet we all call home. Perhaps you recycle glass, plastic and paper and compost organic waste; shop with reusable bags; rely heavily on public transportation or bicycles or, failing that, at least drive fuel-efficient cars.But have you given serious thought to the planetary effects of what you eat and made changes that will protect not only terra firma and surrounding waters but also your health and the well-being of generations to come?In January, The New York Times described a comprehensive new report from the EAT-Lancet Commission on Food, Planet and Health. It was compiled by 37 scientists and other experts from 16 countries, with the aim of establishing a global food economy that could combat chronic diseases in wealthy nations like ours and provide better nutrition for poor ones, all without destroying the planet. The scientists’ goal was to outline a healthy sustainable diet that could feed the nearly 10 billion people expected to inhabit the world by 2050.For more than a century, most Americans have been eating far too high on the hog for the sake of their own health and the health of the planet. In 1900, two-thirds of our protein came not from animals but from plant foods. By 1985, that statistic was reversed, with more than two-thirds of our protein coming from animals, primarily beef cattle. They consume up to eight pounds of grain to produce one pound of meat and release tons of greenhouse gases in the process while their saturated fat and calories contribute heavily to our high rates of chronic diseases.As Dr. Walter C. Willett, professor of epidemiology and nutrition at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and a contributor to the Lancet report told Nutrition Action Healthletter, “We simply cannot eat the amounts of beef that we’re now consuming and still have a future for our grandchildren.”In an editorial, The Lancet wrote: “Intensive meat production is on an unstoppable trajectory comprising the single greatest contributor to climate change. Humanity’s dominant diets are not good for us, and they are not good for the planet.” The Lancet report does not insist that everyone become a vegetarian or vegan, but does set as a goal that people in wealthy countries limit consumption of red meat — beef and lamb in particular — to one 3-ounce serving a week, or one 6-ounce serving every two weeks. You can be somewhat more generous with pork, poultry and fish, which are better for your health and less damaging to the earth. The grain-to-meat ratio for poultry and hogs is only about 2.5 to 1, and the fat in fish is mostly unsaturated and high in omega-3 fatty acids.But you would do best for your health and the planet by gradually adopting a diet that derives most of its protein from plants — including legumes and nuts — with farmed seafood as your primary animal food along with moderate amounts of poultry and eggs. The fact is, we don’t need nearly as much protein as most Americans now consume. Studies in both animals and people have shown that high-protein diets limit longevity.Chickpeas and lentils account for a large percentage of the protein in my current diet, which has gradually become heavily plant-based. A favorite recipe starts with 2 cups of cubed butternut squash and 1 cup of coarsely chopped onion tossed with 1 tablespoon of olive oil, roasted on a sheet pan at 450 degrees for 20 minutes. Combine this with a 15-ounce can of drained chickpeas tossed with 2 teaspoons of curry powder, ¼ teaspoon coarse salt and 1 tablespoon olive oil that has been roasted separately on a sheet pan for 15 minutes. Yum! For more ideas, check out Menus of Change 2018 conference recipes.I often have what some may consider an unusual breakfast — soup laden with baby spinach and/or kale and roasted baby carrots, and a salad supper with salmon, tuna, low-fat chicken sausage, beans or chickpeas for protein. An alternate breakfast consists of slices of banana topped with peanut butter. Hummus on whole-wheat bread or crackers with grape tomatoes is a favorite lunch or snack.Another critically important change is in our consumption of carbohydrates, nearly half of which come in the form of nutrition-deficient unhealthy carbs: mostly refined starches like white bread and white rice, added sugars and potatoes, all of which contribute to the rampant incidence of obesity and Type 2 diabetes in this country. Nearly all my carbohydrates come from beans, whole-grain breads and milk, and I’m gradually decreasing consumption of my favorite treat: low-fat ice cream.As Dr. Willett pointed out, “Switching from refined starches to whole grains doesn’t make a big difference to the environment, but it does for your health.”My biggest failing vis-à-vis the EAT-Lancet dietary advice is the amount of dairy products — primarily nonfat, lactose-free milk and nonfat yogurt — I consume. Dr. Willett suggests only one serving a day while I usually consume three, making dairy a large portion of my protein and calcium intake.Suggestions about dietary fats mimic those you’ve been hearing for years: stick with unsaturated vegetable oils like olive, canola, soybean and corn oils, but steer clear of palm oil, which is high in saturated fats and its production is responsible for massive destruction of tropical rain forests needed to protect both the earth’s climate and diversity of wildlife.Coconut oil is currently enjoying a moment in dietary fame; even though it is a highly saturated fat, the particular type of fat in coconut oil gives a greater-than-usual boost to blood levels of HDL cholesterol, which is considered heart-protective. Dr. Willett suggests limiting it to occasional use, perhaps for Thai cooking or (do we dare?) making a pie crust or other baked goods that call for a solid fat.The EAT-Lancet Commission emphasized that its advice to eat more plant-based foods and fewer foods from animals is “not a question of all or nothing, but rather small changes for a large and positive impact.” It pointed out that “foods sourced from animals, especially red meat, have relatively high environmental footprints per serving compared to other food groups,” which Dr. Willett called “unsustainable.”AdvertisementSupported byMy SpaceThe actor and environmentalist has learned you can be both green and stylish. By Steven KurutzEd Begley Jr.Age: 69Occupation: actorLocation: Studio City, Calif.Favorite Room Mr. Begley and his wife, Rachelle Carson, hired William Hefner, a Los Angeles architect, to design a French-Mediterranean home with the highest green certification, LEED Platinum. Mr. Begley’s favorite room is the kitchen. “I make a very good guacamole,” he said.Is it difficult to design a green kitchen that’s also functional and attractive?It can be. But I’ve gotten more reasonable in old age. In the old days, I would have used a little tiny box with no ice maker, no proper racks for sauces. In an effort to make a green fridge, you had this rustic box. This is a full-tilt modern fridge with lots of space that the wife is happy with.What’s in Ed Begley’s fridge?I’m a vegan. So I have a soup that I made, a spicy tomato soup from a recipe in “The Moosewood Cookbook”; tofu veggie dogs; coconuts that have the hull removed so you can open them and have a drink.What’s that curious faucet above the stove?It’s called a pot filler. I had never heard of it, either. It can go to any one of the six burners. If I need 10 cups of water, it’s much easier than lugging a huge thing of pasta over to the sink. The architect lobbied for it. And I’ve used it a lot.Everything in here is white. Is that meant to be heat reflective?The architect and my wife conspired against me. I thought it was a waste to have tall ceilings, all that steel. But it’s spacious and airy. I didn’t fight them on the whites and light grays, though. I ceded control, and I’m glad I did. It turns out I like things that look nice. I didn’t know that I cared.I noticed your nontoxic Begley’s natural soaps come in plastic bottles. Plastic waste is such a problem. What gives?I think about that constantly. I try to just buy melon in its own container. I have wonderful glass containers for storing food. Sadly, the people that make the products (I’m the spokesman) say it’s just too expensive to ship glass. It would be $7 a bottle.Given all the mounting environmental problems we face, how do you keep your spirits up?AdvertisementSupported byLots of people have talked about the downsides of tech. But something can be convenient and good for you at the same time. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. I was holding my mobile device — at the time, the feature-challenged BlackBerry RIM 850 — when my first son was born. It wasn’t on purpose. Without going into the gory details, I was anxious and also bored waiting for Louie to arrive, and was texting about a new conference idea. When I suddenly had to get an epidural and was rushed in for an emergency C-section, I wasn’t focusing on the Blackberry that was still in my hand. So there it was, buzzing away, encased in plastic during the whole procedure, since the scrubbed-in staff couldn’t touch it. “Kara, you really have to do something about your tech problem,” joked my doctor.Yes, I know. I’m awful. But bear with me when I tell you that this was not the worst thing ever.During a recent interview at SXSW, Margrethe Vestager, the commissioner of competition for the European Union — the regulator who is the scourge of Facebook, Google, Facebook, Apple and more — asked me a surprising question.“What is the good life?”The good life, Ms. Vestager said, is not “the same thing as a convenient life. I think a convenient life can be extremely boring if you’re never challenged with any hardship of everyday life.”She was talking about the way we have shifted to valuing convenience as the ultimate good over what is actually good for us. It’s the not surprising result of the twitchy, I-want-it-now, mobile-phone-addled life in which everything is just a click away.But I don’t think throwing our phones out the window is the solution. Instead, we have to find a way to balance what is good with what is convenient, even as tech companies do as much as possible to hook us.On this topic, there has lately been a lot of hand-wringing. Some are warning that we don’t yet know the consequences of being addicted to our devices. Others are pondering whether the overuse of screens is a class issue, in which the poor are trapped in cyberspace and the rich can afford not to be jacked into the matrix 24/7. And what is the price we pay in cohesion, as we opt to stare relentlessly at our phones instead of engaging in person? Will there ever be an end to the tweet-dissing that coarsens our civic discourse? What does it mean that so much of the important information citizens of a working democracy need to know has mutated into blink-and-you’ll-miss-it memes?All of this is about the fact that we are now contending with a culture of convenience that does not differentiate very much between getting news in a form that is “snackable” (my least favorite media word ever), having a bottle of ketchup delivered to your door in the middle of the night even if it sucks up too many resources, and getting a car on demand at the lowest price even if it requires paying drivers less and less.The top techie Marc Andreessen once said that software is eating the world. The fact of the matter is, we are eating software and becoming unhealthy and obese doing it.That was the real point Ms. Vestager was making in the interview, which was ostensibly about competition and how to rein in big tech companies with her too-small bag of remedies, such as passing strict laws about how they need to run the platforms that have become a free-for-all. By this I mean both that their services are free and freewheeling and that this freedom comes at a high cost to society.So perhaps it’s not surprising that she sees the unbridled power of the big tech companies as part of a bigger issue. “We have to have a discussion” she said, “about inequality.”“And in that, competition or enforcement is only a tiny part of that answer. But it’s as if we’re not having this discussion,” she said, referring to all manner of apps that bring us stuff immediately. “We just talk about convenience, ‘Oh, it will be convenient that my fridge is always full.’”Kevin Roose, in a recent column for this paper titled “Do Not Disturb: How I Ditched My Phone and Unbroke My Brain,” chronicled the price of tech addiction.“Unlike alcohol or opioids, phones aren’t an addictive substance so much as a species-level environmental shock,” he wrote. “I’ve been a heavy phone user for my entire adult life. But sometime last year, I crossed the invisible line into problem territory. My symptoms were all the typical ones: I found myself incapable of reading books, watching full-length movies or having long uninterrupted conversations. Social media made me angry and anxious, and even the digital spaces I once found soothing (group texts, podcasts, YouTube k-holes) weren’t helping.”A species-level environmental shock? That’s a big statement, and it’s true. The most profound experiment in human communications in all of our history is taking place right now.But while the downsides of continuous partial attention have been made abundantly clear, we shouldn’t forget that the concept of instant communications is profound, and the ability to be in touch at an important time is both convenient and good.As technology morphs and improves, the terrible things about it (being pecked to death by email, texts or tweets) are always shifting back and forth with the great things (the joy of surprising emails, texts or tweets).Taking a cue from Mr. Roose’s piece, I looked hard at my own screen time, which adds up to about seven hours a day. I guess that sounds like a lot. But very little of that time is frittered away. Mostly, I send what I consider important messages into the ether and I get them back; I read The New York Times and The Washington Post, as I always have; I use Slack to talk to my co-workers, and that’s certainly useful; I check my Google calendar to find out where I should be; I write ideas and notes for columns and podcasts and more; and, best of all these days, I rent scooters.All convenient and good, for the most part, which is the balance I think we all have to find as tech keeps eating the world.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Kaly SotoWelcome to the weekend. Well deserved after a busy news week! Virginia politics are a mess. El Chapo’s jury is still deliberating. And Jeff Bezos took on The National Enquirer. But today, there are plans to be kept and kitchens to clean. Here are some of the stories you may have missed this busy week.Men in Japan do fewer hours of housework and child care than in any of the world’s richest nations. That keeps women from getting better jobs and holds back the economy.____As the former Texas congressman weighs a run for president, his rebel-in-moderation youth offers revealing parallels to his search for direction now.____Blackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions, has persisted in fraternity houses and private clubs, occasionally exploding into public view.[Also read: “When Is Sorry Not Enough? Virginia Scandals Test the Limits of Forgiveness”]____These women want the right to compete in big-wave contests — and get paid as much as men do.____The National Western Stock Show in Denver bills itself as the premier livestock and rodeo gathering in the country. Every January, thousands of agricultural families come together for the 16-day celebration.____A bipartisan consensus has taken hold: After prison, nonviolent offenders should get a second chance at normal lives. But what about someone whose criminal history — and ambitions — are more extreme?____The durable R&B-turned-movie star built her legend on the pursuit of enlightenment. It’s taken her to hostile territory.____A retired actor found what he thought was an ideal place to live in Greenwich Village in 1955, for $90 a month. He never left.____Some conservationists and travel experts are worried about the environmental impact of a growing number of visitors on the fragile, otherworldly archipelago.____Winsomely captured in poems and song, the birds are yielding new secrets about their astounding beaks and penchant for violence.____After sharply restricting logging in its own forests, China turned to imports, overwhelming even a country with abundant resources: Russia.Logs from Russia stacked outside Manzhouli, a Chinese border town, where the wood is processed and then shipped throughout the country and the world.CreditCreditLam Yik Fei for The New York TimesSupported byBy Steven Lee MyersFrom the Altai Mountains to the Pacific Coast, logging is ravaging Russia’s vast forests, leaving behind swathes of scarred earth studded with dying stumps.The culprit, to many Russians, is clear: China.Since China began restricting commercial logging in its own natural forests two decades ago, it has increasingly turned to Russia, importing huge amounts of wood in 2017 to satisfy the voracious appetite of its construction companies and furniture manufacturers.“In Siberia, people understand they need the forests to survive,” said Eugene Simonov, an environmentalist who has studied the impact of commercial logging in Russia’s Far East. “And they know their forests are now being stolen.”Russia has been a witting collaborator, too, selling Chinese companies logging rights at low cost and, critics say, turning a blind eye to logging beyond what is legally allowed.Chinese demand is also stripping forests elsewhere — from Peru to Papua New Guinea, Mozambique to Myanmar.In the Solomon Islands, the current pace of logging by Chinese companies could exhaust the country’s once pristine rain forests by 2036, according to Global Witness, an environmental group. In Indonesia, activists warn that illegal logging linked to a company with Chinese partners threatens one of the last strongholds for orangutans on the island of Borneo.Environmentalists say China has simply shifted the harm of unbridled logging from home to abroad, even as it reaps the economic benefits. Some warn that the scale of logging today could deplete what unspoiled forests remain, contributing to global warming.At the same time, China is protecting its own woodlands.Two decades ago, concerns about denuded mountains, polluted rivers and devastating floods along the Yangtze River made worse by damaged watersheds prompted the Communist government to begin restricting commercial logging in the nation’s forests.The country’s demand for wood did not diminish, however. Nor did the world’s demand for plywood and furniture, the main wood products that China makes and exports.It is one thing for Chinese demand to overwhelm small, poor nations desperate for cash, but it is another for it to drain the resources of a far larger country, one that regards itself as a superpower and a strategic partner to China.The trade has instead underscored Russia’s overreliance on natural resources and provoked a popular backlash that strains the otherwise warm relations between the countries’ two leaders, Vladimir Putin and Xi Jinping.Protests have erupted in many cities. Members in Russia’s upper house of parliament have assailed officials for ignoring the environmental damage in Siberia and the Far East. Residents and environmentalists complain that logging is spoiling Russian watersheds and destroying the habitats of the endangered Siberian tiger and Amur leopard.“What we are doing now in Siberia and the Far East is destroying what is left of the original intact forest landscapes,” said Nikolay M. Shmatkov, director of the forestry program for the World Wildlife Fund in Russia. The group has documented the destruction using satellite images over a period that coincides with the Chinese logging boom in the country.“It’s not sustainable,” he said.China’s stunning economic transformation over the last four decades has driven its demand. It is now the world’s largest importer of wood. (The United States is second.) It is also the largest exporter — turning much of the wood it imports into products headed to Home Depots and Ikeas around the world.The total value of China’s timber imports — rough logs, timber or wood pulp — has increased more than 10 times since China began restricting logging at home in 1998, reaching $23 billion in 2017, the highest ever, according to IHS Markit’s Global Trade Atlas.The government extended a regional ban to the rest of the country at the end of 2016. It now allows commercial logging only in forests that have been replanted, a policy that environmentalists say other countries should emulate.The problem is that many have not, and Chinese companies have pursued these opportunities.More than 500 companies operate in Russia now, often with Russian partners, according to a report by Vita Spivak, a scholar on China for the Carnegie Moscow Center. Russia once delivered almost no wood to China; it now accounts for more than 20 percent of China’s imports by value.“If the Chinese come, nothing will be left,” Marina Volobuyeva, a resident of the Zamensky region south of Lake Baikal, told a television channel after a Chinese company secured a 49-year lease to log in the area.Russia sells such logging concessions at prices that vary by region and type of wood, but on average, they cost roughly $2 a hectare, or 80 cents an acre, per year, according to Mr. Shmatkov of the World Wildlife Fund. That is far below the cost in other countries.In 2017, China imported nearly 200 million cubic meters of wood from Russia.Artyom Lukin, a professor of international studies at the Far Eastern Federal University in Vladivostok, noted that government corruption, criminality and the lack of economic development in Siberia and the Far East have also made the crisis worse.“In many rural areas of the Russian Far East and Siberia, there are few other ways to make money, or to make a living, than stripping natural resources of the vast surrounding forests,” he said.For China, though, the trade has been a boon.Much of the wood from Russia crosses the border in Manzhouli, a former nomadic settlement that became a junction in the Trans-Siberian Railway at the turn of the 20th century. The trade has transformed what was once a sleepy border town into one of China’s main hubs for wood processing and production.In the last two decades, more than 120 mills and factories have sprung up. They process raw or rough-cut lumber into plywood, and manufacture veneer panels, laminated wood, doors, window frames and furniture.The factories cover dozens of acres on the city’s edge and have created more than 10,000 jobs in a city of 300,000 people, according to a municipal official.New construction has made the city an architectural homage to Russian culture. Many buildings have features like onion domes. There is even a replica of St. Basil’s Cathedral that is a children’s science museum, and a hotel in the shape of what officials claim is the world’s largest matryoshka, or nesting doll.Zhu Xiuhua’s career has traced the arc of the Russian trade.Now 50, Ms. Zhu moved to Manzhouli when China began restricting logging. She began brokering imports from Russia, then in 2002 began to seek the rights to log Russian forests directly. Four years later, she founded the company she owns today, the Inner Mongolia Kaisheng Group, one of the city’s biggest.Ms. Zhu now oversees three factories in Manzhouli, as well as concessions to log 1.8 million acres of Russian forests near Bratsk, a city next to Lake Baikal, and to transport them to China. “We are growing every year,” she said.When pressed, she declined to discuss her concessions in detail, but according to the company’s website, she had invested $20 million in Russia by 2015. China’s official Xinhua News Agency estimated the conglomerate’s assets at $150 million in 2017.In Ms. Zhu’s view, the trade is a classic case of supply meeting demand. She described it, perhaps overconfidently, as enduring.The next step will be to seek more concessions westward. “Krasnoyarsk,” she said, using first the Mandarin version of the name before pronouncing it in Russian. “You could not log all of it in 100 years,” she said.There are international protocols that seek to control where and what kinds of trees are logged, and the United States extended the Lacey Act in 2008 to ban the import of wood obtained illegally anywhere, but such regulations are difficult to enforce.In some countries, like the United States and Canada, logging is strictly policed, but Chinese companies often exploit lax oversight elsewhere and log in protected forests, according to officials and environmentalists.In Russia, logging commonly encroaches on areas outside the allotted boundaries and companies that export wood to China are known to falsify records.Logging without contracts is also common, while arsonists are suspected of having set fires to forests, because scorched trees can be legally culled and sold.In 2016, the United States Justice Department accused Lumber Liquidators of illegally importing hardwood flooring that was mostly made in China using timber illegally harvested in Russia’s Far East.Accusations of corruption have stirred public anger in Russia. A question on the extent of illegal logging prompted an acerbic response from Mr. Putin in his annual news conference in December. He called Russia’s forestry industry “a very corrupt sector.”Protests against logging — and Chinese logging in particular — have erupted across Siberia and the Russian Far East. They have stoked ethnic tensions along a border that extends over 2,600 miles between Russians and Chinese who had long had mutual suspicions shaped by political and cultural differences.One protest last May in Ulan Ude, a regional capital near Lake Baikal, resulted in scuffles with the police and eight arrests. “Stop the barbaric deforestation,” a sign declared.The issue has become so politically volatile that in January the head of Russia’s forestry service, Ivan Valentik, faced pointed questioning in the upper house of parliament, which does not usually challenge Mr. Putin’s government directly.He defended the concessions, but also sought to shift blame to the Chinese companies for not fulfilling their contracts — by, for example, replanting forests. He suggested that Russia could be forced to end direct sales of timber to China.In China, the State Forestry and Grassland Administration did not respond to written questions. Officials have previously pledged that Chinese companies would adhere to local laws and be mindful of the environmental impact.Ms. Zhu initially said she did not worry about the protests inside Russia since everything her company did was done according to Russian laws. After the latest round of public hearings in Moscow, however, she sounded less sanguine.“Russia is changing now,” she said by telephone, and then declined to answer any more questions.AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — The White House moved to exert greater control over the federal regulatory process on Thursday by imposing additional scrutiny over independent government agencies when they establish new policies, guidelines or rules that affect large swaths of the economy.The new policy was laid out in a memorandum written by Russell T. Vought, the acting director of the Office of Management and Budget. It broadens the scope of rules that would be subject to White House review and scrutiny by Congress through the Congressional Review Act.The additional oversight would apply to agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, the National Labor Relations Board and the Federal Reserve. The White House review would not apply to the Fed’s authority to set monetary policy but would affect its regulatory arm, including rules on the banking system. The move comes as President Trump, frustrated by the Fed’s interest rate increases last year, has moved to install loyal allies on the Fed’s seven-member board.Heightened scrutiny of federal rule-making has been a longtime cause of Republicans, who view it as a way to limit government. The Trump administration has also been wary in some cases of independent agencies, which are often managed by both Republicans and Democrats.Mr. Trump has made deregulation a pillar of his economic agenda and has instructed his officials to scale back rule-making — and in some cases enforcement of existing rules — that he maintains will unleash business. The president has also signed numerous executive orders directing agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency to speed up projects and relax certain rules that businesses said were a hindrance.Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, applauded the move in a statement, saying “it appears that for those who want a government more accountable to the people, this announcement is a very positive development.”But some consumer watchdog groups met the action with skepticism.“This is a naked power grab on the part of the Trump administration,” said Lisa Gilbert, the vice president of legislative affairs at Public Citizen. “It puts agencies that are necessarily independent and intentionally kept firewalled from the administration right in the cross hairs and newly subject to undue influence.”She added, “The administration’s thumb should not be on the scale for regulations that must be kept free from conflict, like financial regulations, campaign finance regulations and more.”A senior administration official played down the scope of the memorandum, saying that it simply provided clarification that guidance documents were covered by Congressional Review Act statutes and needed to be reviewed to determine their economic effects.According to the memorandum, proposals that have an effect of $100 million or more annually on the economy would be considered “major” and would require a review by Congress.The administration official said Obama-era guidance on joint employment and independent contractors that the Trump administration reversed in 2017 was an example of the type of policy that would be submitted for such a review.That guidance had increased the likelihood that companies could be held responsible for labor violations committed by contractors and franchisees.AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Richard RhodesA BRIGHT FUTURE How Some Countries Have Solved Climate Change and the Rest Can Follow By Joshua S. Goldstein and Staffan A. QvistSome years ago, while studying how societies transitioned from one energy source to another over the past 200 years, the Italian physicist Cesare Marchetti and his colleagues discovered a hard truth: It takes almost a century for a new source of primary energy — coal, petroleum, natural gas, nuclear power — to command half the world market. Just to grow to 10 percent from 1 percent takes almost 50 years.You would expect suppliers to switch quickly to a better (more abundant, cheaper, cleaner) source. But infrastructure has to catch up: In America, natural gas needed long-distance pipelines to go national; electric cars need still-scarce charging stations. People have to adapt: Elizabethan preachers condemned coal as literally the Devil’s excrement; some Victorian homeowners comfortable with gaslight thought Edison’s light bulbs too bright. Competition from heavily invested older sources has to be overcome, as with fossil fuels today. These and other changes take time.Today, with global temperatures rising, time is running short. That’s the starting point of Joshua Goldstein and Staffan Qvist’s smart new study of how we can move away from fossil fuels. A double burden compounds the problem. We have to limit any further increase in greenhouse gas production, as the 2018 Paris Agreement specifies. But this isn’t enough.“Decarbonization,” the authors write, “requires both replacing existing fossil fuels and meeting new demand from carbon-free sources.” That second challenge has hardly yet been addressed. It must be, especially given the increasing prosperity of the developing regions — China, India, Africa — which the authors correctly say both “want more energy” and “have a moral right to it.” As a consequence, worldwide energy consumption 30 years from now is projected to be about 50 percent higher than it is today. If that number sounds exaggerated, think of four billion Asians installing air-conditioning.For Goldstein (an emeritus professor of international relations) and Qvist (a Swedish engineer), the only possible solution to this double dilemma is a rapid, worldwide expansion of nuclear power. No other source or collection of sources of energy, they argue, is positioned to meet these challenges in time. Without growth in nuclear power, replacing fossil fuels with renewables simply decarbonizes the existing supply. It doesn’t deal with the increased demand coming from the developing world.One of the countries that have “solved climate change,” as the book’s subtitle has it, is Sweden, Qvist’s homeland. Much as France did before it, Sweden achieved this by expanding its electrical supply with nuclear power rather than fossil fuels. Its concern at the time, in the 1970s, wasn’t global warming but reliability: Further hydropower development was environmentally undesirable, and the oil crises of that decade made petroleum an unpredictable source.Between 1970 and 1990, Sweden built a dozen nuclear power plants on four sites, eight of which continue to operate today. They supply 40 percent of Sweden’s electricity, equal to its hydropower. Wind and biofuels supply the rest. As a result, electricity in Sweden is cheap, clean and reliable. Serendipitously, the authors point out, “Sweden became the most successful country in history at expanding low-carbon electricity generation and leading the way in addressing climate change.”Goldstein and Qvist contrast Sweden’s experience with Germany’s. That country decided to switch to renewables, mostly wind and solar, while eliminating nuclear power. By doubling renewables while cutting nuclear, “it just substituted one carbon-free source for another, and CO2 emissions did not really decrease at all.” Today, 40 percent of Germany’s energy comes from dirty brown coal; six of Europe’s 10 most polluting power plants are German.After this initial view of two contrasting European programs, “A Bright Future” is largely devoted to debunking the many attacks nuclear power has weathered over the years. “The antinuclear movement has progressed through reasons to oppose nuclear power,” the authors write, “one after another.” It was too dangerous. Then it would lead to weapons proliferation. Then it was uneconomical, an argument still made, one the authors debunk when it comes to countries like Sweden and South Korea that haven’t experienced the strangulating effect of heavy government regulation and antinuclear litigation.Then it was unnecessary because it was argued that renewables could do the job. “But in every case where nuclear power was shut down, renewables have not filled the gap and CO2 emissions have gone up, whereas in places such as Ontario that expanded nuclear power, emissions went down.”A final claim, that nuclear power is politically infeasible, “is just a self-fulfilling prophecy, and we should not be so quick to write off the most practical solution for humanity’s most serious problem. … Politics have a way of catching up with necessity.”I happen to be in sympathy with these authors’ view that nuclear power must be a major part of the worldwide campaign to limit and reverse global warming. Their discussion omits an important historical component, however, one that has subverted logical argument.Historically, the antinuclear movement didn’t emerge from environmental concerns, which is why arguments for nuclear’s environmental advantages often fall on deaf ears. The movement originated out of a panic among European and American intellectuals in the 1950s and ’60s about overpopulation, expressed most luridly in such popular books as the entomologist Paul Ehrlich’s 1969 “The Population Bomb.” They believed more power plants would exacerbate human density and urban growth. But nuclear power champions like Alvin Weinberg, the longtime director of America’s Oak Ridge National Laboratory, countered that nuclear could supply energy enough to forestall the social collapse the neo-Malthusians feared. In the end, the green revolution and the demographic transition that followed third-world economic development met food needs and limited population growth, now predicted to level off at 10 billion by 2100. But by then nuclear power was anathema to the Democratic Party and American and European Greens, a tragic misalignment of liberal values.The tide may be turning. Politics may catch up with necessity. But the “Green New Deal” recently championed in Congress includes even existing nuclear power production only grudgingly, and promotes the notion that “A Bright Future” disputes — that 100 percent renewables can save the day. Nuclear has stalled in America and in Western Europe, largely for political reasons, partly because of the boom in fracked natural gas. (Natural gas releases fully half as much CO2 as coal. But except for the manufacture of its construction materials and fuel, nuclear releases none.) Momentum has shifted to China and Russia, which are building advanced reactors for domestic use as well as for sale in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Both, however, are increasing nuclear power production at home in order to sell their fossil fuels abroad, with little net gain against global warming. Whether all these oppositions will converge in time to spare us from global disaster remains to be seen.Their eyes on Sweden, Goldstein and Qvist are hopeful. I would like to be, but Cesare Marchetti’s evidence of the inertia inherent in energy transitions haunts me. As a harbinger of what’s coming if we don’t hurry, the Iranian city of Bandar Mahshahr in August 2015 suffered a heat index — combining temperature and humidity — of 165 degrees Fahrenheit. That’s the proper internal temperature of a cooked chicken.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensDespite a turbulent week in which he was accused by several women of inappropriate physical contact, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. remains popular among Iowa Democrats and leads a new poll that also indicates Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., is on the rise.The poll, which was conducted by Monmouth University, had Mr. Biden garnering the support of 27 percent of Democratic voters who are likely to attend the Iowa caucuses in February. It also showed that he is the best-liked person among the field of presidential contenders by a comfortable margin, with a favorability rating of 78 percent, compared with 14 percent who viewed him unfavorably. (Though Mr. Biden’s advisers have signaled that he intends to run for president, he has yet to announce his candidacy.)He did especially well among voters age 65 and older, drawing 44 percent of their support.The poll numbers were less encouraging for Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, the front-runner among the announced candidates. Sixteen percent of respondents said they would support or lean toward him as their first choice. Twenty-five percent of voters had called him their first choice in a poll last month conducted by the Des Moines Register and CNN.The Monmouth poll also found that about half of the Iowa Democrats surveyed ranked health care as the top policy priority, followed by environmental concerns.The poll of 351 Iowa Democrats had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 5.2 percentage points. The poll was conducted April 4-9, several days after the first complaints from women about Mr. Biden.The former vice president’s decades-long habit of hugging, touching and kissing people has become a subject of scrutiny in recent weeks after several women came forward saying his physicality made them uncomfortable. Still, support for Mr. Biden remained about the same as a month ago, when The Des Moines Register poll showed Mr. Biden as the top choice for 27 percent of respondents.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Over that period, support for Mr. Buttigieg appears to have risen. The Monmouth poll showed 9 percent of likely Iowa caucusgoers support him; in the Register poll last month, only one percent of voters labeled him as their first choice for president.After Mr. Biden, Mr. Sanders and Mr. Buttigieg came Senator Kamala Harris of California and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who were each the top choice for 7 percent of respondents. Former Representative Beto O’Rourke drew the support of 6 percent.Other candidates, such as Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Cory Booker of New Jersey, polled lower.AdvertisementSupported byAsk WellImpaired smell is common, particularly in the elderly, but in about one in six people, no cause can be identified.By Richard Klasco, M.D.Q. I have completely lost my sense of smell and can taste only a few things. I have seen doctors and taken tests, but no answers. I know I’m not the only one with this problem. Any ideas?A. Humans are able to perceive an astounding one trillion odors. But our sense of smell is fragile.About a quarter of adults, and more than half of those over 80, have some degree of olfactory impairment. The sense of taste is often affected at the same time, as the neural pathways of smell and taste commingle in the brain.Having an impaired sense of smell may be more than a nuisance. Studies have linked a decreased sense of smell to a heightened risk for Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, multiple sclerosis and premature death.Common causes of a decreased sense of smell include nasal problems, such as deviated septum and nasal polyps; viruses, such as rhinovirus and Epstein-Barr virus; chronic sinusitis; head injury; and certain cancers. Environmental exposure to cigarette smoke, alcohol, air pollution and toxins further increase the risk. Yet, in about 16 percent of people, no cause can be identified.Eating nuts and fish has been associated with protection against smell impairment, as have exercise and use of cholesterol-lowering drugs and oral steroids. It is unknown, however, whether changing one’s dietary or exercise habits will improve the sense of smell.Medical evaluation typically begins with an otolaryngologist, an ear, nose and throat doctor who will use a standardized scratch-and-sniff test to assess any olfactory deficits. Laboratory tests of blood and nasal mucus and imaging studies, such as CT or M.R.I. scans, are often needed. In some cases, endoscopic surgery, a flexible camera inserted into the nose, may aid in diagnosis and provide therapeutic benefits. Treatment, of course, depends on the cause. When the cause is viral, the sense of smell usually returns with time, but steroid medications may hasten recovery. Patients with chronic sinusitis and nasal polyps may get relief from steroids and surgery. In select cases, monoclonal antibody medications may help.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ernesto Londoño and Manuela AndreoniRIO DE JANEIRO — Brazilians signaled a desire for a radical shift in the country’s course when they elected the far-right lawmaker Jair Bolsonaro as their next president in October.It didn’t take long for profound changes to start taking hold.In the weeks leading up to Mr. Bolsonaro’s swearing-in on Tuesday, his embrace of a conservative movement that rejects discussion of gender or sexual orientation in schools thrust classrooms to the front lines of culture wars.Under his direction, Brazil pulled out of hosting the 2019 United Nations summit meeting on climate change and began backtracking from its role as a global exemplar of environmentally sustainable development.And on the foreign policy front, Mr. Bolsonaro courted the United States and picked a fight with Cuba, which responded by rescinding a program that had sent Cuban doctors to remote corners of Brazil since 2013.There is considerable uncertainty about how closely President Bolsonaro will resemble the gruff, indignant and uncompromising candidate who ran as a political outsider and pulled off a long-shot victory by promising to dismantle a culture of corruption and use draconian means to restore security.But there is no doubt that deep transformations are underway. Here are some examples:Days before Mr. Bolsonaro’s inauguration, his son Carlos Bolsonaro, a Rio de Janeiro city councilman, posted a video on Twitter paying homage to his father’s love of weapons and highlighting his pledges to make it easier for the police to kill suspected criminals.“I would rather they murder 200,000 thugs,” the future president is seen saying about the police in a clip that is part of the expletive-laden video.Over the weekend, Mr. Bolsonaro announced he would issue an executive order allowing civilians without a criminal record to purchase weapons to keep at home or work for self-protection.The policy would mark a significant departure from Brazil’s onerous rules for gun ownership, and experts said it would probably exacerbate carnage in the country, which last year had a record 63,880 killings. A poll released on Sunday by the research firm Datafolha found that 61 percent of Brazilians were opposed to relaxing gun ownership rules.Mr. Bolsonaro’s promises to ease weapons regulations have already meant brisk business for gun ranges as aficionados sign up for practice. They also boosted the stock price of Taurus Armas, Brazil’s main gun manufacturer.The image captured the high hopes Mr. Bolsonaro and his team have for closer ties with the United States: After Mr. Bolsonaro’s son Eduardo Bolsonaro wrapped up meetings at the White House during a November trip designed to lay the groundwork for a relationship, the president’s son wore a “Trump 2020” campaign hat.The Trump administration has returned the praise, calling Mr. Bolsonaro a “like-minded” leader on whom Washington hopes to rely as it tries to curb China’s growing influence in the region and put more pressure on Venezuela’s authoritarian government.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will lead the American delegation at Mr. Bolsonaro’s swearing-in ceremony in Brasília.Mr. Bolsonaro’s first diplomatic fight also happened in November, as Cuba abruptly terminated a program under which the island had been deploying thousands of doctors to remote, impoverished regions in Brazil since 2013. Mr. Bolsonaro had called the program a form of indentured slavery and vowed to end it.A vocal critic of authoritarian left-wing governments in the region, Mr. Bolsonaro said he would not invite representatives of the governments of Cuba, Nicaragua or Venezuela to his swearing-in ceremony.On the campaign trail, Mr. Bolsonaro promised to open up more protected land to mining, farming and other industries. People deep in the Amazon took note.Between August and October, the most ardent period of the campaign, deforestation in the Amazon went up by almost 50 percent compared with the same period in 2017.While such an upswing is common during election periods because of an expectation that regulations will change, this was the sharpest increase since close monitoring of deforestation in the Amazon began in 2004, said Adalberto Veríssimo, a co-founder of Imazon, an environmental watchdog agency.“There is an expectation that the government will be more favorable to economic activities in the Amazon, no matter the circumstances,” Mr. Veríssimo said.Throughout his campaign, Mr. Bolsonaro threatened to withdraw Brazil from the Paris Agreement, the international pact struck in 2016 to reduce carbon emissions, and he vowed to put an end to fines imposed by agencies protecting the environment.In late November, the Foreign Ministry announced that Brazil was withdrawing its pledge to host the 2019 United Nations global summit meeting on climate change. Mr. Bolsonaro said he had requested the withdrawal.The move was a clear sign of the shift that Mr. Bolsonaro’s election represents for environmental policy. For years, Brazil, which has the largest share of the Amazon, the world’s largest tropical rain forest, has cast itself as a nation committed to sustainable development and sound environmental policies.After Mr. Bolsonaro was elected, he named Ernesto Araújo, a career diplomat and climate change denier, as foreign minister. His minister of the environment, Ricardo Salles, said soon after his appointment that the debate over global warming was a “secondary” issue.Despite his 27 years in Congress, Mr. Bolsonaro ran as an outsider at the head of a minuscule party. He was rejected by mainstream parties, which saw him as too radical to win and refused to offer him a running mate. But Brazilians, angry with the political establishment, rewarded him handsomely for breaking with the status quo.With his cabinet choices, Mr. Bolsonaro continued to signal a break with politics as usual. Instead of doling out ministerial positions to influential members of political parties with the aim of building coalitions in Brazil’s fractious, multiparty Congress, as previous presidents had done, he tapped military leaders, ideologues and technocrats.The unusually high number of military officers in his government, including the recently retired army general Hamilton Mourão, who was his running mate, represents a remarkable shift for a nation that kept the military largely out of sight as it rebuilt democratic institutions after the end of military rule in the mid-1980s.Mr. Araújo, who raised eyebrows by expressing effusive support for Mr. Bolsonaro during the campaign, will be the rare foreign minister to have risen to the top job from the ranks of career diplomats.The incoming justice minister, Sérgio Moro, is a federal judge who became famous for his prominent role in a major anticorruption investigation that led to the downfall of scores of prominent politicians and business people.In 2014, Mr. Bolsonaro and his sons embraced a little-known movement named Escola Sem Partido, or School Without Party. It was formed by conservative activists who claimed that Brazilian students were being indoctrinated by left-wing educators promoting gender and social equality, among other policies.The movement has grown in prominence in recent years, sparking the proposal of dozens of bills across Brazil to shape public school curriculums. Some of the bills would prohibit teachers from talking about their political views, encouraging students to join demonstrations or discussing gender issues in classrooms.In November, Mr. Bolsonaro tapped Ricardo Vélez Rodríguez, a Colombian theologist who backs Escola Sem Partido’s main ideas, to head the Ministry of Education. One day before his inauguration, Mr. Bolsonaro posted on Twitter that Mr. Vélez would help him “fight the Marxist garbage that has installed itself in educational institutions.”Even before Mr. Bolsonaro took office, teachers were threatened by parents and students and some were fired over their political views, according to Fernanda Moura, a history teacher and a member of the group Teachers Against School Without Party. Others had begun to self-censor, she said.“We were building a new Brazil little by little, a Brazil with policies of inclusion for L.G.B.T. people, women, blacks, people with special needs,” she said. “What we see is that the people who are against these social policies don’t want us to debate them. That’s why they attack schools.”Mr. Bolsonaro’s campaign broke with many of the longtime formulas for electoral victory in Brazil. Instead of courting powerful mainstream media outlets, which covered him critically, he maligned them as “fake news” and addressed supporters directly on social media, where he developed a large following.Like President Trump, he and his top surrogates seem to relish picking fights with journalists. They have begun blocking critical reporters on Twitter, and at the first news conference following his election, journalists from outlets that published critical articles during the campaign were barred.