AdvertisementSupported byFollowing extensive study of the body’s bacterial occupants, researchers are turning to how our fungal residents may contribute to inflammatory bowel diseases and other maladies.By Kaleigh RogersThe connections among different parts of the human body are full of surprises, but here’s one you might not have considered: Could a thing that causes dandruff on your head also be contributing to your digestive problems?That’s one mystery that scientists are trying to unravel with research into the fungi that live in your gut. While the bacteria that colonize our intestines have been a scientific focus for more than a decade, the fungal critters there are starting to get more attention.Already, these studies have uncovered striking connections between fungi and several chronic illnesses, including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. As is typical in medical science, a simple explanation (A causes B, which can be cured by C) is unlikely. But the potential to improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of patients — and to uncover complex processes we never realized were at the root of these diseases — has made the fungal field tantalizing to medical researchers.“It’s a very exciting area of science to be involved in,” said David Underhill, research chair for inflammatory bowel diseases at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. “I think over the next five years, certainly 10 years, we will develop a very different understanding of this area.”Dr. Underhill’s team is investigating the links between fungi in the gut and inflammatory bowel diseases like Crohn’s. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Researchers first became interested in studying the microbiome when advances in DNA technology made it easier to identify microorganisms in and on the human body. Earlier work, Dr. Underhill said, focused mainly on bacteria, because there are far more of them in our bodies, compared with any other type of organism. There are trillions of bacteria in the digestive tract, and as many as 100 different species. Fungi number in the hundreds of thousands, with just a handful of different species. For years, fungi were given scientific short shrift. Now, with our understanding of the bacterial microbiome better established, researchers have turned their attention to fungi, what some call the mycobiome. It has quickly become evident that these organisms play a distinct role in our health. One fungus at the center of Dr. Underhill’s research is Malassezia. Though its name may be unfamiliar, you’re currently coated in it. The fungus is ubiquitous on a healthy human body; it colonizes the skin shortly after birth. For some people, Malassezia on the scalp creates irritation that causes dandruff. But it also turns up inside our bodies, along the digestive tract. Recently, Dr. Underhill and his colleagues published a study in the journal Cell Host & Microbe that suggested a link between Malassezia in the gut and Crohn’s disease. Individuals with Crohn’s had high concentrations of Malassezia on their intestine walls, while healthy patients had almost none. The researchers then demonstrated that simply adding this type of fungi to the gut — at least, in mice — was enough to exacerbate the inflammation seen in Crohn’s.This work built on a growing body of evidence linking fungi to inflammatory bowel diseases. As early as 2010, researchers reported that antifungal medications helped I.B.D. patients go into remission. By 2012, Malassezia in particular was found to be associated with these kinds of disease. In 2016, researchers in France published a study that showed the fungal populations in people with bowel conditions were wildly different than those in healthy patients.“It’s small pieces that we are putting together,” said Mathias L. Richard, a microbiologist at the Micalis Institute in France and a co-author of that study.The race is on to make these connections and add to the growing body of evidence. The findings could benefit hundreds of thousands of people. Crohn’s disease, for example, is commonly treated using anti-inflammatory drugs known as TNF inhibitors. But these treatments are only effective for about 60 percent of patients, according to the Crohn’s and Colitis Foundation. The drugs are also costly: The anti-TNF drug Humira can run as much as $38,000 per year, depending on a patient’s insurance.The link between Crohn’s and Malassezia raises the possibility — not yet proven — that something as simple as a generic antifungal drug could provide relief: Wipe out the fungus, wipe out the inflammation. Dr. Underhill and his colleagues are moving into clinical trials now, just one of many teams eager to test the idea.Scientists in Montreal are pursuing a similar clinical trial, with treatment beginning as early as this summer, according to Martin Laurence, a researcher and the creator of The Malassezia Project, which tracks the research published on this particular organism.It’s not just inflammatory bowel diseases that have been connected to the mycobiome. A study published last year showed that altering the composition of gut fungi in mice exacerbated symptoms of asthma. Some early evidence suggests a link between fungal infections and prostate cancer.“The technology improves every year, we get better and better at identifying organisms and their role in disease and symptom processing,” said Dr. J. Curtis Nickel, a urologist at Queen’s University in Canada. Dr. Nickel is the co-author of forthcoming research that suggests links between Malassezia and interstitial cystitis, a chronic and painful bladder condition.He said the next step for many researchers is to investigate how these fungi interact with and are affected by the other organisms that live alongside them.“I personally suspect that it’s an interaction of all the different bacteria, fungi and viruses,” Dr. Nickel said. “An unhealthy population of these organisms exacerbates disease and perhaps even — this is the next step — causes it. But boy, we’re not there yet.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen ZraickAmericans borrowed an estimated $88 billion over the last year to pay for health care, according to a survey released on Tuesday by Gallup and the nonprofit West Health.The survey also found that one in four Americans have skipped treatment because of the cost, and that nearly half fear bankruptcy in the event of a health emergency.There was a partisan divide when respondents were asked whether they believed that the American health care system is among the best in the world: Among Republicans, 67 percent of respondents said they believed so; that number was 38 percent among Democrats.But Democrats and Republicans had similar responses about putting off medical treatment. Asked if they had deferred treatment because of the cost, 27 percent of Democrats said they had, compared with 21 percent of Republicans and 30 percent of independents.[President Trump retreated on health care Tuesday, saying a G.O.P. plan would appear after the 2020 election.] Respondents from across the political spectrum also reported pessimism about their leaders’ abilities to reduce health care costs. About 70 percent of respondents said they had no confidence in their elected officials to bring prices down. And 77 percent said they were concerned that rising health care costs would damage the American economy.“Our data shows an American public that’s beaten down from this really serious issue,” said Dan Witters, a senior researcher at Gallup.At the same time, 64 percent of respondents said they were mostly satisfied with their experiences in the health care system. When asked if they were satisfied with how well the system was serving Americans generally, only 39 percent said they were.The survey’s authors noted that Americans’ feelings were complicated and at times conflicted. But one thing was clear: High health care costs had created significant anxiety.Assessing the systems in eight countries can inform the debate in the U.S. over universal coverage.Even among households earning $180,000 or more a year, a third of respondents said they were concerned about the specter of personal bankruptcy because of a health crisis. (There has been fierce debate among researchers about the extent to which health care costs can be blamed for bankruptcies.)Many American families earning less than that, of course, feel the effects of high health care costs acutely. They are forced to cut back on other expenses to pay for health care, or skip appointments and prescription refills, creating health risks down the road.Twelve percent of respondents said they had borrowed money for care, including 11 percent of those with health insurance, who may still face high deductibles and other out-of-pocket expenses.Most survey respondents said they believed that Americans were paying too much for health care relative to what they receive. Asked to choose between a hypothetical freeze in their health care costs or a 10 percent increase in household income, 61 percent of respondents chose the freeze. Those in low-income households were most likely to choose that option.“When we’re talking about health care and the debate right now, it usually bifurcates between the financial impact of health care or the health outcomes themselves,” said Tim Lash, chief strategy officer for West Health, a nonpartisan nonprofit that aims to lower health care prices.“But those two things intersect at access,” which can have dire health consequences, he said.The organization believes that Congress should allow Medicare to negotiate directly with drug companies; that there should be more transparency about the prices of medicines and procedures; and that the health care industry should shift toward “value-based care” — in which doctors are paid based on patient outcomes — rather than the current “fee-for-service” model.Mr. Lash noted that other wealthy countries spend much less on health care than the United States does, while achieving better outcomes in areas like life expectancy and infant mortality. Although about 87 percent of Americans have health insurance, according to data from Gallup, an individual’s plan may not cover all costs associated with treatment.President Trump, who has sought to undo the Affordable Care Act, tweeted about high deductibles under the law on Monday morning, promising that “Good things are going to happen!” and tagging several Republican lawmakers.The administration asked a federal appeals court to invalidate the law last week, while Democrats announced a health care bill that builds on the Affordable Care Act and seeks to lower premiums, among other goals.The partnership between West Health and Gallup, the analytics and consulting company, was a first. The survey results are based on phone interviews conducted in English and Spanish in early 2019 with a random sample of 3,500 adults across the country. The margin of sampling error ranged from one to two percentage points for results based on the total sample, and three to five percentage points for results based on subgroups such as political identity or income level, so differences of less than those amounts are statistically insignificant.Gallup and West Health said they would conduct similar surveys in the coming years.AdvertisementSupported byBy Phil GalewitzNonprofit hospitals across the United States are seeking donations from the people who rely on them most: their patients.Many hospitals conduct nightly wealth screenings — using software that culls public data such as property records, contributions to political campaigns and other charities — to gauge which patients are most likely to be the source of large donations.Those who seem promising targets for fund-raising may receive a visit from a hospital executive in their rooms, as well as extra amenities like a bathrobe or a nicer waiting area for their families.Some hospitals train doctors and nurses to identify patients who have expressed gratitude for their care, and then put the patients in touch with staff fund-raisers.These various tactics, part of a strategy known as “grateful patient programs,” make some people uncomfortable. “Wealth screenings strike me as unseemly but not illegal or unethical,” said Arthur Caplan, a bioethicist at the New York University School of Medicine.Mark Rothstein, a bioethics professor at the University of Louisville, said, “Getting physicians involved in philanthropy is something fraught with danger.” He added that it could make patients worry that their care might be affected by whether they made a donation.Despite such concerns, these practices are becoming commonplace, particularly among the largest nonprofit hospitals. A 2016 survey of 108 hospitals found that 68 had grateful patient programs, according to the Advisory Board, a consulting firm.“In the last 10 years we’ve seen a pretty dramatic uptick in strategic attention in the formation of these programs,” said Nicholas Cericola, a senior consultant with the firm.Large hospitals that say they screen patients’ wealth include those run by MedStar Health in Columbia, Md.; the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore; Cedars-Sinai in Los Angeles; and NYU Langone Medical Center in New York.Donations from patients and their families supplement income streams from private and public insurance programs as well as money raised through traditional methods like charity golf tournaments, dinners or gala balls.“It’s a way to get money to the hospital’s bottom line like nothing else they are doing,” said Bill Tedesco, chief executive officer of DonorSearch, a Maryland company that supplies hospitals with software that helps them conduct wealth screenings.Patients and their families were responsible for two-thirds of the $34 million donated to the Sharp HealthCare hospital system in San Diego last year, said Bill Littlejohn, chief executive officer of the system’s fund-raising foundation.Wealth screening and the participation of the hospital’s doctors are crucial, Mr. Littlejohn said. Sharp screens up to 400 patients each night, he said, and adds about 10 to 20 to its database of potential donors.When he approaches wealthy patients in the hospital, they are unlikely to know that they were selected with the aid of the wealth screening, Mr. Littlejohn said.“I’m not asking them for money, but I tell them we appreciate them choosing Sharp and hope they have a wonderful experience,” he said. “I use this as a get-to-know-you opportunity and let them know Sharp is a nonprofit and philanthropic-supported institution.”Mr. Littlejohn estimates that doctors prompted 20 percent of patient donations through conversations with their own patients. The practice has helped Sharp triple its annual fund-raising totals from a decade ago, he said.Nationwide, donations to hospitals exceeded $10.4 billion in 2017, up from $6 billion in 2004, according to the Association for Healthcare Philanthropy.“Grateful patients have always been there, but we did not always do as good a job of inviting them to be part of our missions as we are now doing,” Alice Ayres, the trade group’s chief executive officer, said. She attributed the increased fund-raising to grateful patients programs as well as to a shift away from event-driven efforts, a focus on larger gifts and overall economic growth in the United States.A 2013 change in federal health privacy law made it easier for hospitals to target their patients for donations. It enabled hospital records departments to share with staff fund-raisers some personal details of patients, including their health insurance status, the department treating them, the name of their physician and the outcome of their care.When patients are admitted, they typically sign a raft of papers that include permission for the hospital to use this information for fund-raising. While the 2013 law required hospitals to inform patients that they could decline to be solicited by fund-raisers, few patients are aware of this, said Deven McGraw, a former deputy director of health information privacy at the federal Department of Health and Human Services. And, she said, few appear to realize that their wealth may be assessed for fund-raising.Many hospitals send solicitation letters to all of their insured patients, including those with little desire — or ability — to make donations.St. Clair Hospital in Pittsburgh treated Marcy Grupp in its emergency room for three hours in May for a painful kidney stone, providing a computerized tomography scan, among other tests. Medicare paid the bill.A month later, the hospital sent Ms. Grupp, a retired television engineer, a letter asking for a donation to honor a doctor or other caregiver. “We encourage you to please consider honoring their efforts with a ‘gift of gratitude,’ by making a donation to St. Clair Hospital,” the letter said.Ms. Grupp, 66, said she wasn’t rich, and was disturbed by the letter.“I kind of resent it,” she said. “I don’t think they need the money.” The hospital last year reported nearly $48 million in net income and paid its chief executive officer $1 million.“I thought the care I got was good and the doctors I had were good, but I don’t see why I need to pay in addition to what I’ve already paid,” Ms. Grupp said. St. Clair executives declined to comment.Dr. Patricia Lech, a retired surgeon, underwent a successful joint replacement operation at New England Baptist Hospital in Boston in August 2017. Several months later, she received a letter from the hospital asking her to make a donation to honor one of her doctors.Dr. Lech, 58, said the letter had left the impression that her doctor would directly benefit from the donation, which was not the case. “I did not like the implication that doctors would get rewarded when they really aren’t,” she said.Morgan Herman, vice president of philanthropy at New England Baptist, acknowledged that the hospital solicited former patients but said that did not affect patient care. “There is no connection,” she said.Many doctors are uneasy about being asked to help raise money from their patients, studies show.“It makes doctors very uncomfortable for a lot of reasons — No. 1 is that the doctor is there to see the patient for a problem they have and not to ask the patient for money,” said Dr. Rosalyn Stewart, an internist at Johns Hopkins who has researched physician attitudes at Hopkins toward the practice.She said she worried that if a wealthy patient made a large donation, doctors would feel obligated to treat them differently, perhaps by returning their calls more quickly.“I feel like the risk is we are setting up a two-tiered health care system — one for wealthy patients and one for everyone else,” Dr. Stewart said.While wealth screenings have been used for decades for fund-raising by universities and other nonprofits, ethicists said they raised different concerns for hospitals.“Needing health care is different than choosing to go to college or going to the opera,” said Nancy Berlinger, a bioethicist with the Hastings Center, a think tank in Garrison, N.Y. “When you are sick, you need a trusting relationship to be formed and focused on your health. There is a vulnerability there that is not present in other nonprofits.”Dr. Frederick Finelli, a surgeon and the vice president of medical affairs at MedStar Health’s Montgomery Medical Center in Maryland, said that while he used to feel uncertain about fund-raising, he now saw it as part of the healing process.“When someone says ‘Thanks’ to me, it feels incomplete for me to just tell them, ‘No problem’ or ‘I was just doing my job,’” he said. “Talking to patients about philanthropic or volunteer needs is good for patients.”Some patients say they are happy that they were asked for money.For example, Martin Faga, 77, was treated at Inova Fairfax Hospital in Virginia last year for serious heart problems. A retired president of Mitre, a large nonprofit federal contactor, Mr. Faga repeatedly praised his bedside nurses for their care, he said.When one of those nurses sent an email about this to Mary Myers, a hospital fund-raiser, she visited Mr. Faga’s room to chat about the role of philanthropy and arranged to meet him at his home a few weeks later, Ms. Myers said.Mr. Faga wasn’t initially interested in making a large donation, he said, because he didn’t believe that the nonprofit health system — the largest in Northern Virginia, with five hospitals and $3 billion in annual revenue in 2016 — needed the money. But he said he had changed his mind after Ms. Myers told him that such donations were essential for staff training and buying equipment, and has donated $200,000 to the hospital.AdvertisementSupported byThe Affordable Care Act touches the lives of most Americans. Some 21 million could lose health insurance if the Trump administration were to succeed in having the law ruled unconstitutional. By Reed Abelson, Abby Goodnough and Robert PearThe Affordable Care Act was already in peril after a federal judge in Texas invalidated the entire law late last year. But the stakes ramped up again this week, when President Trump’s Justice Department announced it had changed its position and agreed with the judge that the entire law, not just three pieces of it, should be scrapped.A coalition of states is appealing the ruling. If it is upheld, tens of millions more people would be affected than those who already rely on the nine-year-old law for health insurance. Also known as Obamacare, the law touches the lives of most Americans, from nursing mothers to people eating at chain restaurants.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Here are some potential consequences, based on estimates by various groups.Of the 23 million people who either buy health insurance through the marketplaces set up by the law (11.4 million) or receive coverage through the expansion of Medicaid (12 million), about 21 million are most at risk if Obamacare is struck down. That includes 9.2 million who receive federal subsidies. On average, the subsidies covered $525 of a $612 monthly premium for customers in the 39 states that use the federal marketplace, HealthCare.gov, according to a new report from the Department of Health and Human Services. If the marketplaces and subsidies go away, a comprehensive health plan would become unaffordable for most of those people and many of them would become uninsured.States could not possibly replace the full amount of federal subsidies with state funds.Medicaid, the government insurance program for the poor that is jointly funded by the federal government and the states, has been the workhorse of Obamacare. If the health law were struck down, more than 12 million low-income adults who have gained Medicaid coverage through the law’s expansion of the program could lose it. In all, according to the Urban Institute, enrollment in the program would drop by more than 15 million, including roughly three million children who got Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program when their parents signed up for coverage.The law ensures that states will never have to pay more than 10 percent of costs for their expanded Medicaid population; few if any states would be able to pick up the remaining 90 percent to keep their programs going. Over all, the federal government’s tab was $62 billion last year, according to the Congressional Budget Office.Losing free health insurance would, of course, also mean worse access to care and, quite possibly, worse health for the millions who would be affected. Among other things, studies have found that Medicaid expansion has led to better access to preventive screenings, medications and mental health services.The health law took effect just as the opioid epidemic was spreading to all corners of the country, and health officials in many states say that one of its biggest benefits has been providing access to addiction treatment. It requires insurance companies to cover substance abuse treatment, and they could stop if the law were struck down. The biggest group able to access addiction treatment under the law is adults who have gained Medicaid coverage. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that 40 percent of people from 18 to 65 with opioid addiction — roughly 800,000 — are on Medicaid, many or most of whom became eligible for it through the health law. Kaiser also found that in 2016, Americans with Medicaid coverage were twice as likely as those with no insurance to receive any treatment for addiction.States with expanded Medicaid are spending much more on medications that treat opioid addiction than they used to. From 2013 through 2017, Medicaid spending on prescriptions for two medications that treat opioid addiction more than doubled: It reached $874 million, up from nearly $358 million in 2013, according to the Urban Institute.The growing insured population in many states has also drawn more treatment providers, including methadone clinics, inpatient programs and primary care doctors who prescribe two other anti-craving medications, buprenorphine and naltrexone. These significant expansions of addiction care could shrink if the law were struck down, leaving a handful of federal grant programs as the main sources of funds. As many as 133 million Americans — roughly half the population under the age of 65 — have pre-existing medical conditions that could disqualify them from buying a health insurance policy or cause them to pay significantly higher premiums if the health law were overturned, according to a government analysis done in 2017. An existing medical condition includes such common ailments as high blood pressure or asthma, any of which could require someone buying insurance on their own to pay much more for a policy, if they could get one at all.Under the A.C.A., no one can be denied coverage under any circumstance, and insurance companies cannot retroactively cancel a policy unless they find evidence of fraud. The Kaiser Family Foundation estimated that 52 million people have conditions serious enough that insurers would outright deny them coverage if the A.C.A. were not in effect, according to an analysis it did two years ago. Its estimates are based on the guidelines insurers had in place about whom to cover before the federal law was enacted.Most Americans would still be able to get coverage under a plan provided by an employer or under a federal program, as they did before the law was passed, but protections for pre-existing conditions are particularly important to those who want to start their own businesses or retire early. Employers would sometimes refuse to cover certain conditions, and companies would have to decide if they would drop any of the conditions they are now required to cover.The need to protect people with existing medical conditions from discrimination by insurers was a central theme in the midterm elections, and Democrats attributed much of their success in reclaiming control of the House of Representatives to voters’ desire to safeguard those protections. Many Republicans also promised to keep this provision of the law, although exactly how was unclear. Before the law, some individuals were sent to high-risk pools operated by states, but even that coverage was often inadequate.The 156 million Americans who get coverage through an employer, as well as the roughly 15 million enrolled in Obamacare and other plans in the individual insurance market, are protected from caps that insurers and employers used to limit how much they had to pay out in coverage each year or over a lifetime. Before the A.C.A., people with conditions like cancer or hemophilia that were very expensive to treat often faced enormous out-of-pocket costs once their medical bills reached these caps.While not all health coverage was capped, most companies had some sort of limit in place in 2009. A 2017 Brookings analysis estimated that 109 million people would face lifetime limits on their coverage without the health law, with some companies saying they would cover no more than $1 million in medical bills per employee. The vast majority of people never hit those limits, but some who did were forced into bankruptcy or went without treatment.About 60 million people are covered under Medicare, the federal insurance program that covers people over 65 years old and people with disabilities. Even though the main aim of the A.C.A. was to overhaul the health insurance markets, the law “touches virtually every part of Medicare,” said Tricia Neuman, a senior vice president for the Kaiser Family Foundation, which did an analysis of the law’s repeal. Overturning the law would be “very disruptive,” she said.Medicare beneficiaries would have to pay more for preventive care, like a wellness visit or diabetes check, which are now free. They would also have to pay more toward their prescription drugs. About five million people faced the so-called Medicare doughnut hole, or coverage gap, in 2016, which the A.C.A. sought to eliminate. If the law were overturned, that coverage gap would widen again.The law also made other changes, like cutting the amount the federal government paid hospitals and other providers as well as private Medicare Advantage plans. Undoing the cuts could increase the program’s overall costs by hundreds of millions of dollars, according to Ms. Neuman. Premiums for as many as 55 million people under the program could go up as a result.The A.C.A. was also responsible for promoting experiments into new ways of paying hospitals and doctors, creating vehicles like accountable care organizations to help hospitals, doctors and others to better coordinate patients’ care. If the groups save Medicare money on the care they provide, they get to keep some of those savings. About 12 million people are now enrolled in these Medicare groups, and it is unclear what would happen to these experiments if the law were deemed unconstitutional. Some of Mr. Trump’s initiatives, like the efforts to lower drug prices, would also be hindered without the federal authority established under the A.C.A.The A.C.A. required employers to cover their employees’ children under the age of 26, and it is one of the law’s most popular provisions. Roughly two million young adults are covered under a parent’s insurance plan, according to a 2016 government estimate. If the law were struck down, employers would have to decide if they would continue to offer the coverage. Dorian Smith, a partner at Mercer, a benefits consulting firm, predicted that many companies would most likely continue.Doctors and hospitals could lose a crucial source of revenue, as some people lose insurance. The Urban Institute estimated that nationwide, without the A.C.A., the cost of care for people who cannot pay for it could increase as much as $50.2 billion.Hospitals and other medical providers would incur losses, as many now have higher revenues and reduced costs for uncompensated care in states that expanded Medicaid. A study in 2017 by the Commonwealth Fund found that for every dollar of uncompensated care costs those states had in 2013, the health law had erased 40 cents by 2015, or a total of $6.2 billion.The health insurance industry would be upended by the elimination of A.C.A. requirements. Insurers in many markets could again deny coverage or charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing medical conditions, and they could charge higher rates to women. States could still regulate insurance, but consumers would see more variation from state to state. Insurers would also probably see lower revenues and fewer members in the plans they operate in the individual market and for state Medicaid programs.The A.C.A. requires nutrition labeling and calorie counts on menu items at chain restaurants.It requires many employers to provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk.It created a pathway for federal approval of biosimilars, which are near-copies of biologic drugs, made from living cells.AdvertisementSupported bylettersDoctors and other health professionals discuss what we know and what don’t know.To the Editor:Re “The A.I. Diet,” by Eric Topol (Sunday Review, March 3):To write that “we know surprisingly little about the science of nutrition” is wrong. Most people do not need personalized diets. A whole foods, plant-based diet naturally low in fat and sugar has been scientifically proved to prevent and even reverse a wide variety of chronic diseases, including heart disease, Type 2 diabetes, hypertension and early-stage prostate cancer, especially when combined with moderate exercise, social support and stress management. Why? Because these illnesses share the same underlying biological mechanisms.Even if there are individual differences — how efficiently a person metabolizes dietary refined carbohydrates or fat — these don’t matter if a person isn’t eating too much of these. It’s why countries like China had such low rates of chronic diseases despite individual genetic variations until they started to eat like us, live like us and die like us.To say that artificial intelligence is needed to design a diet based on your microbiome is incorrect since a healthy diet can quickly change your microbiome in beneficial ways. Recommending foods like red meat and bratwurst, which the World Health Organization defined as potent carcinogens, shows how flawed A.I. can be.Dean OrnishKim Allan Williams Sr.Dr. Ornish is a clinical professor of medicine at the University of California San Francisco and co-author of “UnDo It!: How Simple Lifestyle Changes Can Reverse Most Chronic Diseases.” Dr. Williams is a former president of the American College of Cardiology.To the Editor:As a registered dietitian and a health educator who has been working in the field for more than 30 years, I have come to the conclusion that we know both so much and so little about nutrition as it relates to health. The bottom line is that diet’s effect on health is multifaceted, and blood glucose level is only a fraction of the important information for health outcome predictors. Individual variability is based on genes, environment, stress levels and so on. While I strongly believe that the future of dietary recommendations should be based on an individual’s needs, we are a long way from being able to do this in an accurate and comprehensive fashion.Elizabeth Schwebel WindWhite PlainsTo the Editor:I commend Joon Yun, David A. Kessler and Dan Glickman (“We Need Better Answers on Nutrition,” Op-Ed, nytimes.com, Feb. 28) for underscoring the role of diet in reducing preventable disease. But their focus on diet is narrow in a conversation about disease prevention. Diet is one of a collection of lifestyle factors, including physical inactivity, poor sleep, tobacco use, stress and non-adherence to medical regimens that account for 80 percent of chronic disease. These behaviors are driven by complex interactions between biological, environmental and social determinants of health. The broad focus on behavior, its determinants and disease describes the scope of the field of behavioral medicine. We have subsisted for 40 years on less than 3 percent of the National Institutes of Health budget. No substantive progress will be made in tackling preventable disease until we can understand and control the forces driving the public toward unhealthy lifestyles, including but not limited to diet.Sherry PagotoStorrs, Conn.The writer is president of the Society of Behavioral Medicine and a professor of allied health sciences at the University of Connecticut.To the Editor:Re “We Need Better Answers on Nutrition”:We need real food, preferably, food not grown with cancer-causing agents. It should be affordable. Instead, taxpayers subsidize the corn growers and other commodity crops. Corn gets turned into high-fructose corn syrup, which sweetens foodlike substances, which are cheaper because of those subsidies. The fake-food companies make fortunes off that addicting, cheap and convenient fake food because busy people working several minimum-wage jobs can’t afford real food and don’t have time to cook it anyway.We know what makes people healthy, but the political will to change public policy to get us to a healthy society isn’t there. It’s ironic that this article was written by a hedge fund manager, a former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration and a former agriculture secretary. AdvertisementSupported byThe administration’s chaotic reversals on Obamacare could deprive millions of coverage.By Steven RattnerMr. Rattner was counselor to the treasury secretary and head of the White House auto task force in the Obama administration.In Donald Trump’s two-plus years as president, his approach to policymaking has often been defined by an unsavory stew of indecision, inaction, flip-flops and outright lies.Nowhere has this been truer than with health care, where the administration has reversed direction multiple times.A short history: During his presidential campaign, Mr. Trump said he would produce a health care plan that provided universal coverage and also promised that he would not cut Medicare or Medicaid. “Everybody’s got to be covered,” Mr. Trump told “60 Minutes,” a position that he repeated regularly until he took office.Then he began backing proposals that would eviscerate the Affordable Care Act and severely damage the other programs.On his first day in office, Mr. Trump signed an executive order directing government agencies to scale back as much of the A.C.A. as possible while the White House sought “prompt repeal” of the law.That was followed by nearly a year of wrangling in Congress as Republicans tried to craft a bill that could attract majorities in both houses.The effort fell short in September 2017 when John McCain cast the deciding vote against the so-called skinny repeal, which would have cost 16 million Americans their insurance by 2021 and sent premiums soaring for those still covered.Like the elephant who never forgets, Mr. Trump continues to hammer Mr. McCain, now deceased, over that vote, even as he professes to be working on a plan to improve health care coverage.Meanwhile, the administration’s latest budget, released in mid-March, stands behind legislation known as “Graham-Cassidy,” which was pushed by Republicans in 2017 but never won enough support to be brought to a vote.The Trojan horse of health care reform, the proposal provides for relatively small initial cuts in federal funding and then huge reductions starting in 2027.According to a Brookings Institution report, Graham-Cassidy would cost 32 million Americans their health insurance by 2027, just as full repeal would. That’s Donald Trump’s idea of a “beautiful,” “terrific” and “unbelievable” health care plan.In the meantime, new regulations — issued pursuant to the president’s Inauguration Day executive order — have chipped away at the A.C.A., leading to a drop in enrollments through the exchanges from 12.7 million in 2016 to 11.4 million this year.Then there’s the legal front. The administration’s recent decision to submit a brief in a Texas case asking the court to declare all of Obamacare unconstitutional was well publicized.Slipping by almost unnoticed was Mr. Trump’s instruction last June to the Justice Department, which was defending the A.C.A., to argue instead that certain key provisions — notably, the requirement that Americans with pre-existing conditions be treated equally — be declared unconstitutional.A win by Mr. Trump in this case could mean that nearly 20 million Americans would lose insurance, according to the Urban Institute.Meanwhile, Mr. Trump (and his fellow Republicans) keep saying that they are committed to protecting coverage for pre-existing conditions, although acknowledging that under their formulation, people with pre-existing conditions could be forced to pay more than those without.Confused? That may well be Mr. Trump’s strategy: pretend you want expanded coverage while your operatives are pursuing strategies that would cost millions of Americans their coverage.Republicans, beware: After years of polling negative, Obamacare has achieved majority support, perhaps because Americans have figured out what the Republicans’ alternative health care universe would look like.Garnering less attention but also an important component of Mr. Trump’s health care strategy are the huge cuts that he has proposed to Medicare and Medicaid (again, contrary to explicit campaign promises).The White House contends that the $575 billion in Medicare reductions over the next 10 years would come largely from health care providers and would not affect beneficiaries.We can debate the veracity of that, but what’s unambiguously true is that the nearly $800 billion in Medicaid reductions would come directly from lower-income Americans.Fortunately, like most budgets of recent years, Mr. Trump’s proposals — unsupported by a wide majority of legislators — have already been declared dead on arrival on Capitol Hill.Now Mr. Trump is trying to finesse his way through the 2020 election by promising a plan immediately thereafter. For those of us of a certain age, that’s reminiscent of President Nixon’s false suggestion in the 1968 campaign that he had a “secret plan” to end the war in Vietnam.Isn’t a plan what Mr. Trump promised in 2016? Are the American people really going to allow him to lie to them again?His hard-right henchmen, led by the acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, aren’t waiting. Mr. Mulvaney, a Freedom Caucus co-founder, recently brought top Republican policymakers to Camp David to work on the proposal.Either Mr. Trump is too ignorant to understand that any plan Mr. Mulvaney develops will gut the A.C.A. or he doesn’t care.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementSupported byGlobal healthAbout two million people are displaced, cholera has broken out, and malaria is expected. But doses of cholera vaccine have arrived, and the humanitarian crisis may yet be contained, aid agencies say. By Donald G. McNeil Jr.A wide swath of Mozambique devastated by Cyclone Idai two weeks ago is now at a tipping point, humanitarian agencies said on Tuesday. About two million people have seen their homes or crops destroyed, and cholera is spreading fast. Malaria, measles and starvation may follow unless help reaches enough people quickly.At the same time, there are encouraging signs: 900,000 doses of cholera vaccine arrived on Tuesday, and a vaccination campaign is to start on Wednesday.Water service has been restored to large portions of Beira, a coastal city of 500,000 people. More than 700,000 mosquito nets are being shipped in an effort to forestall a malaria outbreak.The main road to Maputo, the capital, was reopened five days ago, and other roads are being repaired, so large shipments of food are arriving.“Most of our operation has switched to land, so we can move a lot more,” Robert A. Holden, an emergency officer with the World Health Organization, said in a telephone interview. “There are still some areas in the north we can only reach by helicopter, and some where we’re still using boats. It’s a real tapestry of land, air and sea capabilities.”Oxfam, CARE and Save the Children jointly sent boats on Tuesday to Buzi, an area southwest of Beira with no clean water or sanitation, said Dorothy Sang, Oxfam’s local humanitarian campaign manager.The boats carried hand-operated pump filters, water-storage bladders, latrine slabs (pit covers that users squat on), tarps, soap and other supplies.But the situation is still perilous. The W.H.O. has asked for $40 million to cover operations in Mozambique for the next three months. Other agencies have made their own financial appeals.The United Nations estimated last week that the storm killed about 500 people in Mozambique, about 250 in Zimbabwe, and about 60 in Malawi. Whole villages with thousands of residents were flooded, so more bodies may yet be found.Cholera, usually transmitted in contaminated water, is rapidly spreading. The Mozambique government said Tuesday that it had recorded more than 1,000 cases, including one death.Aid officials privately called that an underestimate, saying treatment centers are seeing hundreds of cases each day. Some victims are already dead when they are carried in.The disease drains the body of fluids and electrolytes. If cholera victims reach help in time, they can almost always be saved with rapid rehydration and one dose of antibiotic.Nine treatment centers with about 500 beds offering intravenous rehydration have been set up, eight of them run by Doctors Without Borders and one by the International Red Cross Federation.Short-term centers with oral rehydration for ambulatory patients have also been created.“If the epidemic continues the way it is now, that should be enough,” said Dr. Gilles van Cutsem, an H.I.V. specialist with Doctors Without Borders helping out in the crisis. “If cases massively increase, we’ll have to increase capacity.”The aid group has hired 80 local doctors and nurses, and trained them to treat cholera, he said. The Mozambique health ministry and aid agencies are collaborating on a campaign using radio and local health workers to tell people to seek help at the first sign of diarrhea and to be vaccinated against cholera.One vaccine dose, taken by mouth, takes about a week to work and then protects for up to six months, the W.H.O. said.But cholera is just the first and most imminent threat.Although the cyclone and floods killed most mosquitoes and their larvae, standing water, where mosquitoes lay their eggs, is everywhere. Millions of them are hatching, and many Beira residents already carry malaria parasites in their blood, which can be picked up and spread by mosquitoes. Experts fear a major outbreak in the coming weeks.Measles is another looming danger.More than 130,000 displaced Mozambicans are living in more than 150 makeshift camps on high ground. Under such conditions, in a chronically undernourished population, measles outbreaks can kill 10 percent of all children infected, according to the W.H.O.“We’ll do an emergency measles vaccination campaign soon,” Mr. Holden said.Dengue fever, which is spread by mosquitoes, and leptospirosis, a lethal bacteria found in the urine of many animals and commonly spread by floodwater, are also both endemic in the area.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]There are still other threats to public health, agencies warn. The storm also tore the roofs off dozens of health centers, soaking the medicines, supplies and equipment inside. Pregnant women need places to give birth, and large numbers of people taking H.I.V. and tuberculosis drugs need to get back on treatment.And because crops were wiped out in nearby Manica Province, which is Mozambique’s breadbasket, food shortages will persist until the next harvest. Prices will soar unless food is supplied from outside.In an encouraging sign, Mr. Holden said, some settlement camps are shrinking as the water recedes and families venture home. Those who want to leave are given aid packages containing tents, tarps, mosquito nets, bedding, tools for farming and home repair, cooking pots, seeds, and other goods. AdvertisementSupported byEven Trump supporters don’t believe the party’s promises.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistThere are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies and Republican claims about health care.O.K., it’s not news that politicians make misleading claims, some more than others. According to a running tally kept by Daniel Dale of The Toronto Star, as of Monday morning, Donald Trump had said 4,682 false things as president.But G.O.P. health care claims are special, in several ways. First, they’re outright, clearly intentional lies — not dubious assertions or misstatements that could be attributed to ignorance or misunderstanding. Second, they’re repetitive: Rather than making a wide variety of false claims, Republicans keep telling the same few lies, over and over. Third, they keep doing this even though the public long ago stopped believing anything they say on the subject.This syndrome demands an explanation, and I’ll get there eventually. Before I do, however, let’s document the things that make G.O.P. health care lies unique.[For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]First, as I said, I’m not talking about mere dubious claims. When Trump officials insisted that the 2017 tax cut would lead to a decade of miraculous growth, their claim made no sense in terms of the underlying economics, and it flew in the face of decades of evidence. But it was a prediction, not a statement of fact, and it’s conceivable (barely) that Trump’s people actually believed it.But when Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, went on TV Sunday to declare that “every single plan” Trump has put forward “covered pre-existing conditions,” that was just a lie.Here’s what the Congressional Budget Office said in its assessment of the Republicans’ American Health Care Act, which would have caused 23 million to lose coverage, and would have passed if John McCain hadn’t voted “No”: “People who are less healthy (including those with pre-existing or newly acquired medical conditions) would ultimately be unable to purchase comprehensive nongroup health insurance at premiums comparable to those under current law, if they could purchase it at all.”But Mulvaney’s pre-existing conditions lie, along with his lie about nobody losing coverage if the lawsuit against Obamacare succeeds, was normal by G.O.P. standards. Which brings me to the second reason this particular form of lying is exceptional: Republicans just keep telling the same lies, over and over. Again and again they have promised to maintain coverage and protect pre-existing conditions — then offered plans that would cause tens of millions to lose health insurance, with the worst impact on those already suffering from health problems.The funny thing — which is my third point — is that almost nobody seems to believe these lies. On the eve of last year’s midterm elections, the public trusted Democrats over Republicans to protect Americans with pre-existing conditions by 58 percent to 26 percent. A margin this big tells us that even Trump supporters knew their man was lying on this issue.So what’s behind the persistence of R.H.L.S. — Republican health care lying syndrome?Well, public opinion here is clear: Americans want everyone to have access to health care. There isn’t even that much of a partisan divide: An overwhelming majority of Republicans don’t believe insurance companies should be allowed to deny coverage or charge more to those with pre-existing conditions.This public near-unanimity is one reason Medicare is so popular. Getting older — and thus joining a group with much higher average health costs than the rest of the population — is, after all, the ultimate pre-existing condition.But there are only two ways to cover people with pre-existing conditions, and both are anathema to conservative ideology.One is to have taxpayers pay the bills directly, which is what Medicare does.The other combines regulation and subsidies. Insurance companies must be prohibited from discriminating based on medical history — a prohibition that must include preventing them from issuing bare-bones policies that will appeal only to those in good health — but that won’t do the job by itself. Healthy people must also be induced to sign up, to provide a good risk pool, which means subsidizing premiums for those with lower incomes and, preferably although not totally necessary, imposing a penalty on those without insurance.If the second option sounds familiar, it should. It’s what countries like the Netherlands and Switzerland do; it’s also a description of, you guessed it, Obamacare.But Republicans cannot admit that the only way to protect pre-existing conditions is to emulate Democratic policies. The party of Eisenhower, or even the party of Nixon, might have been able to do such a thing, but the party of Fox News cannot.Nor, however, do Republicans dare admit that they have no interest in providing protection that a vast majority of voters demands. So they just keep lying.You may, by the way, have heard talk about G.O.P. members of Congress opposed to Trump’s new health care push. But they share his goals; they’re just questioning his timing. The whole party still wants to take away your health care. It just hopes to get through the next election before you find out.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders debate whether a system of nonprofit health insurers is the best path to universal care.To the Editor:Re “A Better Path to Universal Health Care,” by Jamie Daw (Op-Ed, Feb. 21):Dr. Daw holds up the German-style system of nonprofit private health insurers as a better model for the United States than a single-payer system. While I can understand why the professor believes that a German-style system “builds more naturally on the American health insurance system,” it’s hard to believe that it would meet significantly less resistance from the insurance industry than a single-payer system.In fact, Dr. Daw actually explains why this is the case: “In an American version of this system, private insurers would have to be heavily regulated to ensure that coverage was affordable and to prevent the sort of rapid increases in premiums, deductibles and cost-sharing that have occurred over the past decade.”Does anyone really expect that private for-profit insurance companies will willingly convert to nonprofit status and submit to tough regulations?Bruce ShenitzNew YorkTo the Editor:As an American who has lived in Germany for over 40 years and who is alive but not impoverished today because of the quality of the German health care system, I can only echo Jamie Daw. Democratic candidates would do well to examine the multipayer systems of Germany, Austria and the Low Countries and not concentrate on the less efficient single-payer systems of Canada or Britain simply because they are described in English.There is a place for private insurance plans in a well-organized system. Indeed, as the German system demonstrates, those of us who earn enough to be better off with private plans can actually subsidize the care offered to the publicly insured, thus raising the quality for all patients.Steven J. ShermanMunichTo the Editor:Jamie Daw would do well to confer with Senator Chris Murphy of Connecticut. He proposes opening up Medicare as just one more insurer, albeit a nonprofit one, and letting market forces play out as they will. That is, of course, a great oversimplification of the senator’s thinking, but the underlying logic is beautifully simple.Dave GlisermanOxford, Conn.To the Editor:In her plea to Americans to adopt German rather than Canadian-style health insurance, Jamie Daw observes that we Canadians spend 3 percent of our health expenditures on administrative costs while the Germans spend 5 percent. The reason is simple: We have largely eliminated private insurance and bill the national health insurance plan directly for medical and hospital care.When I had a heart attack and a double bypass operation some years ago, the only requirement was that I show my health insurance card to the hospital. Does anywhere in the United States provide the same efficiency in health care?By contrast, the German system, as described by Dr. Daw, looks like American health care-lite — easier to afford, but still afflicted with private insurers and the incredible weight of bureaucracy required to keep the system honest. Harvey G. SimmonsTorontoThe writer is emeritus professor of political science at York University.To the Editor:Jamie Daw argues we can transition from Obamacare to Germany’s universal health care system far more easily than we can persuade — whom? — to accept single payer. Poll after poll shows Americans long for a single-payer plan. But we cannot ignore the differences between a country that accepts limits on profiteering and one that celebrates any and all legal means of turning any “opportunity” into a buck.As long as health insurance companies donate to politicians, we can’t hope for a government that eliminates their profits. Without getting rid of for-profit health insurance, we cannot get the obscene expense of treating illness in this country down to manageable levels. In spite of Dr. Daw’s optimism, we cannot transition from profitability to a system based on the values associated with compassion as long as health insurance companies continue to stand between us and the care we need to thrive.Candida PughOakland, Calif.To the Editor:So let me see if I have this right: Because a German chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, came up with an inefficient way to provide universal health care almost 140 years ago, the United States should now copy his system?There are too many flaws in Jamie Daw’s case to enumerate in a short letter, but let me take just one: Dr. Daw states, “In Germany, sickness funds leverage market power to secure lower prices, coming together regionally to negotiate contracts with doctors and hospitals.” In the United States, health insurance companies — which are much larger and have much more market power than German sickness funds — have had the ability to negotiate for lower prices for the better part of a century. The result has been what we have — by far the most expensive health care system in the world.What on earth makes Dr. Daw think that, with a snap of the fingers, this already existing market power will suddenly yield a better result? Private insurance companies add an extra layer of expense that is totally unnecessary. We can do better. Wesley H. ClarkMiddlebury, Vt.The writer is an anesthesiologist.To the Editor:I am an American expat who has been living in Germany for many years and have intimate knowledge of and experience with its health care system. Jamie Daw’s essay is not representative of the realities, pitfalls and serious systemic problems that exist in the German system and do not reflect the fact that most of the population is getting substandard care. Indeed, the German system is just as bad as the American system, just with a different set of failures that need to be addressed. Stew GreenBrandscheid, GermanyTo the Editor:One important aspect of health care that Jamie Daw does not mention is the education of medical providers. The cost of medical school in Germany is a tiny fraction of the cost in the United States. Medical schools can cost as much as $75,000 per year, or $300,000 in total, for tuition, fees and living expenses. During the additional four to eight years of internship, residency and fellowship, young doctors are barely paid enough to cover basic housing and living costs. Most are not only acquiring substantial debt but also forgoing about 10 years of earning and saving.This is a huge sacrifice. We should be asking ourselves how much longer the best and brightest students will choose this career path unless the cost of medical education is not so onerous.Candace SingerPort Washington, N.Y.To the Editor:Several important features of the Bismarckian model advocated by Jamie Daw are omitted from her description of the German health insurance system. First, all of the sickness funds are, by law, not for profit; to introduce this needed feature into the American capitalist system is as radical as single payer.Second, people earning above a defined (inflation-adjusted) yearly amount of money are not required to join the sickness funds, and can either pay out of pocket or find other insurance; this group comprises about 10 percent of the working force. Third, the system operates under a gatekeeper system, in which primary care providers refer to hospital-based secondary and tertiary care providers.AdvertisementSupported byLawmakers in California and at least seven other states want to provide state income tax credits for families that need help with home caregiving.By Samantha Young, Kaiser Health NewsGloria Brown didn’t get a good night’s sleep. Her husband, Arthur Brown, 79, has Alzheimer’s disease and had spent most of the night pacing their bedroom, opening and closing drawers, and putting on and taking off his jacket.So Ms. Brown, 73, asked a friend to take her husband out for a few hours one recent afternoon so she could grab a much-needed nap. She was lucky that day because she didn’t need to call upon the home health aide who comes to their house twice a week.Paying for help isn’t cheap: The going rate in the San Francisco Bay Area, where the Browns live, ranges from $25 to $35 an hour. Ms. Brown estimates she has spent roughly $72,000 on caregivers, medications and supplies since her husband was given his diagnosis four years ago.“The cost can be staggering,” said Jim Patterson, a Republican state assemblyman from Fresno who is the author of a bill that would give family caregivers in California a tax credit of up to $5,000 annually to help offset their expenses.A 2016 study by AARP found that the average caregiver spends $6,954 a year on out-of-pocket costs caring for a family member. The expenses range from $7 for medical wipes to tens of thousands of dollars to retrofit a home with a walk-in shower or hire outside help.AARP, a lobbying organization for people 50 and older, is pushing similar bills in at least seven other state legislatures this year, said Elaine Ryan, the group’s vice president of state advocacy and strategy integration. Arizona, Illinois, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island and Wisconsin are considering legislation, and AARP expects measures to be introduced in Florida, Massachusetts and Ohio.In Wisconsin, two Republicans and two Democrats are behind that state’s tax credit measure.“We need a whole discussion about how we can best keep people at home and meet their needs,” said state Representative Debra Kolste, a Democrat who explained that most people know someone who is caring for a family member. She hopes the measure can make it through the Republican legislature and be signed by Wisconsin’s Democratic governor.New Jersey approved a state income tax credit in 2017 specifically for caregivers of wounded veterans. However, efforts in other states have failed, including in Arizona last year and Mississippi and Virginia this year.At the federal level, bills that would have created a federal income tax credit of up to $3,000 never got out of congressional committees last year.“Whether I’m in Billings, Mont., or in Mississippi, the caregiver tax credit is something that people are asking for,” Ms. Ryan said. “All they’re asking for is a little financial help to offset these costs.”A tax credit, said Ms. Brown and other caregivers, would be welcome relief to the estimated 4.5 million family caregivers in California who care for a loved one with a chronic, disabling or serious health condition. Nationwide, the AARP estimates there are about 40 million people caring for family members.The Browns, who have been married 51 years and live in San Mateo, Calif., have good medical coverage, but like most seniors, they live on a fixed income.As her husband’s disease progresses, Ms. Brown expects costs to escalate. For instance, she wants to install bars in the bathroom to help prevent her husband from falling, and anticipates she will need more professional help.“I think we’re just moving into that stage where I’m going to see the dollars going out for things that will help to make things easier for him at home and more comfortable,” Ms. Brown said. “It’s a cost you just hadn’t anticipated.”Long-term caregiving has emerged as one of the major issues in California’s Capitol this year, with proposals ranging from naming a state “Aging Czar” to funding a new cash benefit for long-term care services. In his State of the State address last month, Gov. Gavin Newsom called for a master plan for aging.“I’ve had some personal — and painful — experience with this recently,” Mr. Newsom told the joint session of the legislature.Mr. Newsom, whose father had dementia and died last year, also has tapped former first lady Maria Shriver to lead a new Alzheimer’s Prevention and Preparedness Task Force, and has asked lawmakers to approve $3 million in state funds for Alzheimer’s disease research.Mr. Patterson’s bill would provide up to a $5,000 state income tax credit to family caregivers for five years, starting in tax year 2020. They would be reimbursed for 50 percent of eligible expenses, such as retrofitting a home, hiring an aide and leasing or buying specialty equipment. The credit would be available to individuals who make up to $170,000 a year, or joint income tax filers who make up to $250,000.Mr. Patterson, a Republican in the minority, is hopeful he can convince his colleagues that giving people a tax credit is financially sound because it would enable caregivers to keep their loved ones at home rather than relying on more expensive government services.“If members of the legislature and the governor would look through the eyes of their own families, friends and neighbors … I think it can be passed and be signed,” Mr. Patterson said.But the measure faces competition for a slice of California’s $21 billion surplus, from proposals by the governor and lawmakers to increase funding for education, health care, housing and dozens of other programs.For Pam Sogge of Oakland, Calif., a tax credit would allow her to hire a home health aide for an additional three hours a week.Her husband, Rick Sogge, 61, has early-onset Alzheimer’s and becomes frantic when left by himself. Sometimes when she leaves him alone in another room of their home, he searches for her every two minutes.Because Mr. Sogge is still physically healthy, most of the couple’s caregiving expenses are for part-time help to take him on outings so his wife can work, run errands or go to the doctor’s office.AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders object to a plan to privatize the V.A. system. To the Editor: Re “Privatize Care for Vets,” by Anuradha Bhagwati (Op-Ed, Feb. 4):Ms. Bhagwati’s problems are unfortunate, but it is not surprising that occasional patients in this vast system have medical experiences that are personally unsatisfactory. The great majority of patients find their care at V.A. facilities more than satisfactory. An eligible person who requests a first-time V.A. outpatient appointment must receive one within 30 days and is usually seen sooner if mental health problems are concerned. The V.A.’s computerized record-keeping system is one of the best in the country, and medical records from distant facilities are instantly available. Our costs are lower(physicians’ salaries; drugs and medical supplies bought in large quantities; expensive and unnecessary tests and procedures avoided), and our outcomes (complications and mortality for certain conditions and procedures, length of hospital stay) match or better those elsewhere in the United States.Charges to patients, if any, are preset, minimal and determined by ability to pay. The V.A. is a leader in American medical care. Its problems should be addressed and corrected. It should not be weakened or destroyed by privatization. Samuel L. RosenthalLarchmont, N.Y.The writer is an internist at the New York Harbor V.A. Medical Center.To the Editor:As a psychiatric nurse-practitioner and service member, and as a psychiatrist in the V.A. system, respectively, we are concerned that the perspective of this article may deter female veterans from receiving V.A. treatment.We are dedicated to providing trauma-informed care for veterans regardless of race, gender or sexual identification.Current initiatives support the growing female and L.G.B.T.Q. veteran population. Some of this is evidenced in our Women’s Clinic, access to female providers in a variety of subspecialties, and strides in Military Sexual Trauma identification and treatment.In our own practice and experience, we do not see this as consistent with a “hypermasculine military culture.” It would be an injustice if the opinion presented in this article served as a deterrent to treatment for other female veterans who are considering V.A. services now, or in the future.Amy RobertsShuba RodriguesWest Haven, Conn.To the Editor:Re “V.A. Rule Would Broaden Access to Private Health Care for Some Veterans” (news article, Jan. 31):The Department of Veterans Affairs has begun to shift tremendous resources, measured in billions, away from publicly provided — and therefore publicly accountable — medical and surgical care.Precisely the wrong direction!What is the big problem at the publicly run veterans hospitals and clinics? Cynically underfund a great public service and then advertise only its failures, while ignoring its fundamental and irrefutable successes.The V.A. should not be torn down, but defended and expanded — on history, on principle and especially on its superlative health outcomes. Instead of privatization, we should demand expansion of the V.A.We desperately need a national health program. We should see in the V.A. system a foundation for a national health service, able to offer excellent and accountable care for everyone in the United States.Andrew D. CoatesDelmar, N.Y. The writer, an assistant professor of medicine and psychiatry at Albany Medical College, is a past president of Physicians for a National Health Program.To the Editor:The Trump administration has embarked upon partial privatization of V.A. health care. Other superior options still available for the V.A. include increased staffing of V.A. physicians and health personnel, extended V.A. clinic hours, including evenings and weekends, and adding drop-in clinics in V.A. health facilities. Such changes would prove more efficient and less costly, and provide greater continuity and higher quality of care than shunting veterans to private vendors.The Trump administration has been less than candid in denying its intent to privatize the entire V.A. health system, a goal promoted by the Koch billionaires.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — The House voted Wednesday to condemn the Trump administration for pushing a federal appeals court to obliterate the Affordable Care Act, and it urged the Justice Department to defend the law in court.The vote, 240-186, was nonbinding, but it documented the House’s support of the health law, which was passed nine years ago without the votes of any Republicans. With the resolution, Democrats sought to put Republicans on the record for failing to come to the defense of the health law’s most popular provisions, such as protecting people with pre-existing medical conditions and mandating coverage for “essential health benefits,” like mental health coverage, prescription drugs, emergency services and maternity care.Eight Republicans voted for it. One Democrat opposed.“The Affordable Care Act is the law of the land, and it is the responsibility of the Justice Department and the administration to defend the law of the land in court,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California said. “What are they doing? Just the opposite. Why? Because they don’t believe in governance. That is why they are happy to shut down government.”The resolution, which expresses the sentiment of the House but is not subject to approval by the Senate or by President Trump, states, “The actions taken by the Trump administration seeking the invalidation of the A.C.A.’s protections for people with pre-existing conditions, and later the invalidation of the entire A.C.A., are an unacceptable assault on the health care of the American people.”Republicans called it an empty gesture.“This will do nothing for your health care,” said the House Republican leader, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California. “But what will it do? It will make a great press release.”Representative Greg Walden, Republican of Oregon, said the resolution was a political screed and “doesn’t do a darn thing to protect people with pre-existing conditions.”“Democrats would rather play politics with health care and attack the president for political purposes, rather than work with us on what could and should be bipartisan solutions,” Mr. Walden said.Democrats relished the opportunity to test Republicans’ commitment to health care, an issue sure to figure in 2020 elections.“I have heard my colleagues on the other side of the aisle repeatedly claim that they stand for protections for people with pre-existing conditions and for other protections included in the Affordable Care Act,” said Representative Frank Pallone Jr. of New Jersey, chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Well, now is your chance to show it.”A federal judge in Texas invalidated all of the Affordable Care Act in December. Last week the Trump administration told the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, that it agreed with the judge’s decision. California and other states that support the Affordable Care Act have appealed the decision.If the entire law is struck down, millions of people could lose coverage provided through the expansion of Medicaid and through private insurance subsidized by the federal government.Republicans have voted dozens of times to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and many were reluctant this week to criticize the position taken in court by the Trump administration. But they said they would be ready to respond if the law falls to a legal challenge.“If the court strikes down the Affordable Care Act, Republicans will act to protect those with pre-existing conditions,” said Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the senior Republican on the Ways and Means Committee. “We will work to make health care more affordable, guaranteeing that folks can see local doctors or go to their local hospitals, and we will preserve other important provisions, such as no lifetime limits and allowing kids to stay on their parents’ plans until age 26.”At the same time, Mr. Brady called the existing health law unconstitutional and called the resolution criticizing the Justice Department a “political stunt.”The House Energy and Commerce Committee is working on legislation to hold down insurance costs and reverse what Democrats describe as the administration’s efforts to sabotage the health law.But Senate Republicans have been badly divided as they consider a response to Mr. Trump’s announcement late Monday on Twitter that the party was “developing a really great HealthCare Plan” to replace the Affordable Care Act.Some, averse to an election-year fight on the issue, have said they would wait to see what Mr. Trump might propose. Some have praised him for raising the issue again.“Back home, what we have right now is an unmitigated disaster,” said Senator David Perdue, Republican of Georgia. “As an elected official, it’s our responsibility to bring solutions. And what President Trump is saying is that if Congress is gridlocked right now, which it is on this topic, then he wants to start a dialogue about what it is he stands for. And I applaud that.”But Mr. Trump pulled back his request for a health-law replacement after Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, told him no such legislation would be coming before the 2020 election.Opinion polls show that Democrats have a political advantage on health care. Asked why voters should trust Republicans to replace the Affordable Care Act, after they failed in 2017, Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin, said, “I would understand their skepticism.”The Supreme Court in 2012 upheld the health law’s requirement for people to have insurance — the individual mandate — as an exercise of Congress’s taxing power. Judge Reed O’Connor of the Federal District Court in Fort Worth ruled that the requirement became unconstitutional after Congress brought that tax penalty to zero in the tax cut signed by Mr. Trump in 2017, and he said that other provisions of the law could not survive because they were inextricably linked to the mandate.Two Republican state attorneys general, Dave Yost of Ohio and Tim Fox of Montana, filed a legal brief this week saying there was “no basis” to strike down the whole law just because the individual mandate was unconstitutional.They said the mandate could be severed from the health law without throwing out other provisions, like the protections for people with pre-existing conditions. The Justice Department under Mr. Trump initially said that the mandate and the protections for people with pre-existing conditions should be struck down. But last week, the department went further and said it agreed with the Texas judge who ruled the entire law was invalid.AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman and Robert PearWASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s surprise decision to press for a court-ordered demolition of the Affordable Care Act came after a heated meeting in the Oval Office on Monday, where the president’s acting chief of staff and others convinced him that he could do through the courts what he could not do through Congress: repeal his predecessor’s signature achievement.Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff and former South Carolina congressman, had spent years in the House saying that the health law should be repealed, and his handpicked head of the Domestic Policy Council, Joe Grogan, supported the idea of joining a Republican attorneys general lawsuit to invalidate the entire Affordable Care Act.That suit, and the Justice Department, initially pressed to nullify only the part of the law that forces insurance companies to cover people with pre-existing medical conditions as well as a suite of health benefits deemed “essential,” such as pregnancy and maternal health, mental health and prescription drugs.But a district judge in Texas ruled that the entire law was rendered unconstitutional when President Trump’s tax law brought the tax penalty for not having health insurance to zero, and the administration faced a choice: stick with its more limited intervention or back the judge’s decision.Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it. Besides, they argued, Democrats have been campaigning successfully on health care, and Republicans should try to claim the issue for themselves. This could force the matter.Among those with concerns was Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, who shared that the new attorney general, William P. Barr, opposed such a move. Vice President Mike Pence was worried about the political ramifications of moving ahead without a strategy or a plan to handle the millions who could be left suddenly uninsured if the suit succeeded.The health and human services secretary, Alex M. Azar II, was on speakerphone during the meeting and also voiced concern about the move, people familiar with the call said. And Marc Short, Mr. Pence’s chief of staff, suggested that it was risky for Mr. Trump’s administration to be at odds with so many Republican attorneys general on such a key issue.But Mr. Trump had been sold, and on Monday night, the Justice Department issued a letter saying it supported the Texas judge’s decision.The blowback has been severe. Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, who is close with Mr. Trump, had privately warned the president not to interrupt the “victory lap” he should be taking after the delivery of the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Mueller, according to a letter by Mr. Barr, found no criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and the Russian government.The reaction was even more intense in the Senate. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, had planned to use the week to publicize his floor vote to force Democrats to take a stand on progressives’ Green New Deal — an important party-building exercise for Republicans after Mr. Trump’s decision to declare an emergency at the border sparked an insurrection in their ranks this month.Members of Mr. McConnell’s leadership team were incensed at Mr. Mulvaney and allies like the acting White House budget director, Russell Vought, for rekindling a fight that served Democrats so well in 2018 and could harm vulnerable incumbents in 2020, according to two senior aides with direct knowledge of the situation. The maneuver may make it much less likely that Mr. Vought, the chief of staff’s handpicked successor to head the Office of Management and Budget, will be confirmed by the Senate, the aides said.And Democrats pressed their advantage.“The equivalent of a nuclear bomb fell on our country when the president said what he said this week,” Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California, said Wednesday as her House subcommittee began pushing through health care legislation. “This is deadly serious.”But Mr. Trump doubled down while talking to reporters in the Oval Office. He predicted that the Texas decision would be upheld by the appeals court, then go to the Supreme Court.“If the Supreme Court rules that Obamacare is out, we’ll have a plan that is far better than Obamacare,” he said.[What happens if Obamacare is struck down? Read more.]White House press aides did not immediately respond to a request for comment. And one official, who asked for anonymity to speak about the meetings, insisted that Mr. Mulvaney had simply been convening people with various views so that the president could make his own decision. But Mr. Mulvaney was described as leading the charge to back the suit, in an account of the two meetings that was described by a half-dozen people with knowledge of what took place.Politico first reported that Mr. Mulvaney pushed Mr. Trump to get involved in the suit.Mr. Barr did not favor the move but did not object to the White House decision once it had been made, people familiar with what took place said. And one White House official said the administration faced a deadline imposed by the court if it wanted to support the suit.But the decision to thrust Mr. Trump’s administration so directly into the lawsuit caught several people inside the White House by surprise, and took the focus off what was arguably the best weekend of the Trump presidency.Mr. Trump did not seem to care about shifting the political focus toward an issue that Democrats far preferred to the aftermath of the Mueller report. He charged ahead at a Senate Republican luncheon, telling reporters as he went in, “Let me just tell you exactly what my message is: The Republican Party will soon be known as the party of health care. You watch.”But Republicans in Congress have no obvious road forward on legislation to replace the Affordable Care Act that could pass the Democrat-controlled House. And House leaders have little political incentive to bow to Republican wishes on health care, an issue that they believe delivered their House majority and that they are eager to campaign on in 2020.The Trump administration has tried to minimize and contain the Affordable Care Act over time. The president has been in favor of previous efforts to end the law. And Mr. Mulvaney has over time built up his internal political capital, and grown his team of loyalists.Mr. Mulvaney is the first ideological purist who has served as Mr. Trump’s chief of staff. His critics inside the West Wing say he has tilted the voices Mr. Trump hears in favor of those who will back his own views.As Republicans pointed fingers, House Democrats began moving legislation on Wednesday to ensure safeguards for people with pre-existing conditions and to hold down the costs of health insurance and prescription drugs. Ms. Eshoo, the chairwoman of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, said the bills were needed to counter what she described as “a monstrous attack” on the health law by the Trump administration.Several Republicans on the panel distanced themselves from the administration’s position.“I’m not with the president on eliminating pre-existing conditions,” said Representative John Shimkus, Republican of Illinois. Republicans, he said, believe in protecting people with pre-existing conditions.The subcommittee approved a bill that would provide $100 million a year for insurance counselors known as navigators who help consumers enroll in health insurance plans under the Affordable Care Act.The Trump administration “has slashed, practically eliminated, funding for the navigators,” said Representative Kathy Castor, Democrat of Florida.Several Republicans said insurance agents and brokers were enrolling more people at a lower cost than the navigators, so the additional money was not needed.The panel also approved bills to outlaw two practices that have been used by brand-name drug companies to stifle competition and delay the sale of lower-cost generic medications.One measure would prohibit makers of brand-name drugs from paying off generic companies to delay sale of the less expensive products. Banning such “pay for delay” arrangements could save consumers billions of dollars over a decade, economists say.Another bill approved by the House panel would require brand-name drug companies to provide samples of their products to generic drug makers.Generic drug developers need samples of brand-name drugs to show that a generic copy is equivalent to the original. Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, has called on the industry to “end the shenanigans” that prevent consumers from getting access to low-cost generic drugs.The House panel also approved on a party-line vote a bill to provide federal money to states to help pay the largest health insurance claims. Democrats said such “reinsurance” programs would lower premiums, as shown by the experience of Minnesota, Alaska, Maryland and several other states. Republicans said they worried that federal funds would go to health plans that covered abortion.Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionNicholas BagleyAdvertisementSupported byThey’ve gone beyond cynicism to pathology.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistOf all the political issues that divide us, health care is the one with the greatest impact on ordinary Americans’ lives. If Democrats hadn’t managed to pass the Affordable Care Act, around 20 million fewer Americans would have health insurance than currently do. If Republican-controlled states hadn’t refused to expand Medicaid and generally done as little as possible to support the act, national progress might have tracked progress in, say, California – so another 7 or 8 million people might have coverage.You obviously know where I stand on this political divide. But I’m starting to believe that I misjudged Republican motives.You see, I thought their behavior was cynical and strategic: They opposed Obamacare because they thought there was political mileage in scaring people about change, and also in denying Obama any successes. Oh, and their donors really hated the taxes on the rich that pay for the ACA’s subsidies. And right up through 2016 they could hope to convince voters that they had a secret plan for something much better than Obamacare.Indeed, all of these things surely played a role in GOP health care strategy. But at this point they’ve clearly lost the political argument. In 2017, Republican attempts to repeal Obamacare made it clear to everyone that their party didn’t have any better ideas, and never did; everything they proposed would have devastated the lives of millions.Then health care became the top issue in the 2018 midterms, and voters who considered it the most important issue went Democratic by a three to one margin.So you might have expected Republicans to cut their losses. Maybe Trump could have done what he did with NAFTA: keep Obamacare basically intact, but make a few minor changes, give it a new name – the Yuge Maga Care Awesomeness, or something – and claim that it was totally different and better.But no. Most Republican-controlled states are still refusing to expand Medicaid, even though Washington would bear the vast majority of the costs. Utah held a direct referendum on Medicaid expansion, which passed easily – so the will of the voters was clear, even in a very conservative state. Yet GOP legislators are blocking the expansion anyway.And now the Trump administration, having failed to repeal the ACA when Republicans controlled Congress, is suing to have the whole thing declared unconstitutional in court – because what could be a better way to start off the 2020 campaign than taking insurance away from 20 million Americans?As an aside, this latest Trump move completes his utter betrayal of the people who put him in office. Consider a place like West Virginia, where a lot of people gained health insurance thanks to Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion. The state went overwhelmingly for Trump anyway, because he promised not to cut health care, and also promised to bring back those good jobs in coal. So I made a little chart to show what he’s actually offering West Virginians:The point is that it’s no longer possible to see any of this as part of a clever political strategy, even a nefariously cynical one. It has entered the realm of pathology instead. It’s now clear that Republicans just have a deep, unreasoning hatred of the idea that government policy may help some people get health care.Why? The truth is that I don’t fully get it. Maybe it’s anger at the thought of anyone getting something they didn’t earn themselves, unless it’s an inheritance from daddy. Maybe it’s a sense that a lot of gratuitous suffering is or should be part of the human condition, or God’s plan, or something. I try to understand how others think, but in this case I really do find it hard.Whatever the reason, however, the fact is that whatever they may claim, today’s Republicans hate the idea of poor and working-class Americans getting the health care they need.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byIn The Edit, a New York Times newsletter for college students and recent graduates, we asked for stories about mental health on campus. The responses below have been edited and condensed.I am divorced, and I live with my parents. I moved home to Minnesota from Texas and decided to continue pursuing my bachelor’s in psychology that I had abandoned after having started school in the fall of 2005. I have been attending classes part time while working full time to keep my health insurance since the summer of 2016.I am on track to graduate next fall. All the while, I have been fighting with chronic pain from a horseback-riding accident and managing depression. Some days I have purpose and a drive to succeed, and other days I just want to give up. If you really want something in this life, you have to find that resilience to pursue it and just keep going.As a result of growing up in a broken and traumatic home, I began experiencing severe anxiety and depression in middle school. While it followed me throughout high school and college, I channeled my struggle with mental illness into the founding of a social enterprise, LEAD (Let’s Empower, Advocate and Do), that provides mental health training and curriculum to schools, camps and youth-serving organizations across the country.I am a senior undergraduate student and was recently named the third-best student entrepreneur in the country in the Entrepreneurs’ Organization Global Student Entrepreneurship Awards.I have struggled with clinical depression and anxiety since my sophomore year of high school. I am a sophomore in college, and I am very passionate about mental health and working to improve it.I read a lot of self-help books in high school, but most were written by a 50-year-old psychologist who knows what they’re talking about in a clinical sense, but not how it actually feels to be 16 and struggling with suicidal thoughts and panic attacks. Because of this, I decided to write a short book with practical advice for improving your outlook on the world and how to incorporate caring for your mental health into your routine through mindfulness, exercise, limited phone time and leaving room for what brings you joy in life.I have conducted a workshop at my high school on improving mental health and also do my best to bring that conversation to Wake Forest.My main philosophy is about learning how to make Tuesday your favorite day of the week, because if you’re always waiting for the weekend or Christmas or your graduation, you are deciding that your happiness is circumstantial, and that therefore you don’t control it, your environment does. However, if you decide that amid the boring, mundane, stressful and sometimes heartbreaking realities of life, that you are going to focus on what is good and build your life around that instead, you are taking back the control that you deserve over your own happiness.I am in my second semester of graduate school, studying for my master’s in public administration, with a focus in gender-based violence. Within my first weeks of being here I witnessed a homeless woman being raped outside of my apartment and obviously called 911.This in many ways was triggering to me, and I went into my first semester of grad school suffering from pretty severe post-traumatic stress disorder, from both this and a previous incident. This is all happening as the Kavanaugh hearings are happening, and I am taking my first gender-based violence class of my program. As I was taking the bus to and from work every day, I was entirely dissociative.I likely could not tell you what happened my entire first month of grad school, that’s how detached I was from reality at that time. Luckily, I took the day off for Rosh Hashana and went to the market, and I was able to snap back into reality in a lot of ways. That day I made an appointment with my campus’s sexual assault resource center. It was able to get me extensions on assignments, set me up with a therapist and wrote a letter of support for my department allowing me to drop the gender-based violence class and receive a full refund.I also saw a psychiatrist and was prescribed beta blockers, which have helped bring down my heightened sense of danger wherever I go. This semester, having had time to help heal, I’ve been able to restart my concentration in gender-based violence, which is more important to me now than ever, and I was still able to complete my other two graduate courses last semester and remain a full-time student.It was so important for me to write you, to emphasize the importance of institutional support. I still struggle sometimes, but I think that without them helping me, I likely would have had no choice but to drop out and move back home.I always knew that coming to study at another university in a foreign country is tough. You sleep and breathe in English, you learn to embrace flip flops in the classroom. You adapt. And that was part of my plan.I embrace new opportunities, learn as much as I can, make mistakes, make friends, have first drinks, pull all-nighters. But depression was never part of my plan. I didn’t even know it had a name until everything felt empty.So, here I was, FaceTiming my mother without the video because I could not let her see my face. My voice sounds fine, telling her I was fine, schoolwork is challenging but manageable — I am applying to summer internships, competition is rough, but it’s fine. And everything was fine. Except me.The first time I had a counseling session was weird. It felt weird that I was living my dream, studying in the United States, having supportive family and friends, and yet I was sitting in that chair. I learned that sometimes there was no definite reason for the way I felt. But at least, when I acknowledged that I was not mentally healthy, it was the beginning of my healing process.Every day I try to make healthier choices and balance all aspects of my life. I go to counseling. I practice mindfulness. I talk to my support network. The chemicals in my brain sometimes act up, but I know I just need to be extra patient that day.If there is a mental health group on your campus that could provide support, definitely check it out. Every single time you feel that you are trapped in your head, remember that every little step to make yourself feel better is a step, as long as you don’t stop.AdvertisementSupported byThere are multiple ways to achieve universal coverage.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistWe’re now in the silly season of the Democratic primary — a season that, I worry, may last all the way to the nomination. There are many honorable exceptions, but an awful lot of reporting seems to be third order — not about the candidates, let alone their policy proposals, but about pundits’ views about voters’ views of candidates’ electability. It’s a discussion in which essentially nobody has any idea what he or she is talking about.Meanwhile, however, there are some real continuing policy debates. They’re not mainly about goals: Whoever the Democrats nominate will profess allegiance to a progressive agenda aimed at reducing inequality, strengthening the social safety net and taking action on climate change. But there are some big differences about how to achieve those goals.And the starkest divide involves health care. Almost surely, the eventual platform will advocate “Medicare for TK.” But what word is eventually chosen to replace the placeholder “TK,” and more important, what that means in terms of actual policy, will be crucial both for the general election and for what comes after if Democrats win.On one side, there’s “Medicare for All,” which has come to mean the Bernie Sanders position: replacing the entire existing U.S. health insurance system with a Medicare-type program in which the government pays most medical bills directly.On the other side, there’s “Medicare for America,” originally a proposal from the Center for American Progress, now embodied in legislation. While none of the announced Democratic candidates has endorsed this proposal yet, it’s a good guess that most of them will come around to something similar.[For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]The big difference from a Sanders-type plan is that people would be allowed to keep private coverage if they chose — but they or their employers would also have the option of buying into an enhanced version of Medicare, with substantial subsidies for lower- and middle-income families.The most important thing you need to know about these rival plans is that both of them would do the job.Many people realize, I think, that we’re the only advanced country that doesn’t guarantee essential health care to its legal residents. My guess is that fewer realize that nations achieve that goal in a variety of ways — and they all work.Every two years the Commonwealth Fund provides an invaluable survey of major nations’ health care systems. America always comes in last; in the latest edition, the three leaders are Britain, Australia and the Netherlands.What’s remarkable about those top three is that they have radically different systems. Britain has true socialized medicine — direct government provision of health care. Australia has single-payer — it’s basically Bernie down under. But the Dutch rely on private insurance companies — heavily regulated, with lots of subsidies, but looking more like a better-funded version of Obamacare than like Medicare for All. And the Netherlands actually tops the Commonwealth Fund rankings.So which system should Democrats advocate? The answer, I’d argue, is the system we’re most likely actually to create — the one that will play best in the general election, and is then most likely to pass Congress if the Democrat wins.And there’s one big fact on the ground that any realistic health strategy has to deal with: 156 million Americans — almost half the population — currently receive health insurance through their employers. And most of these people are fairly satisfied with their coverage.A Medicare for All plan would in effect say to these people, “We’re going to take away your current plan, but trust us, the replacement will be better. And we’re going to impose a bunch of new taxes to pay for all this, but trust us, it will be less than you and your employer currently pay in premiums.”The thing is, both of these claims might well be true! A simple, single-payer system would probably have lower overall costs than a hybrid system that preserves some forms of private coverage.But even if optimistic claims about Medicare for All are true, will people believe them? And even if most people do, if a significant minority of voters doesn’t trust the promises of single-payer advocates, that could easily either doom Democrats in the general election or at least make it impossible to get their plan through Congress.To me, then, Medicare for America — which lets people keep employment-based insurance — looks like a much better bet for actually getting universal coverage than Medicare for All. But I could be wrong! And it’s fine to spend the next few months arguing the issue.What won’t be fine will be if activists make a no-private-insurance position a litmus test, declaring that anyone advocating a more incrementalist approach is no true progressive, or maybe a corrupt shill for the medical/industrial complex. As you might guess, my concerns aren’t drawn out of thin air; they’re things I’m already hearing.So Democrats should try to make this a real debate, one about the best strategy for achieving a shared goal. Can they manage that? I guess we’ll find out.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byThey keep searching for a politically safe silver bullet that slays Obamacare and yet leaves everyone happy. That plan doesn’t exist. By Joseph Antos and James C. CaprettaDr. Antos and Mr. Capretta are health care policy scholars at the American Enterprise Institute.By backing a flimsy, state-initiated lawsuit to throw out the entirety of the Affordable Care Act, President Trump has made himself and Republican candidates in 2020 vulnerable to attacks that they want to take health insurance away from millions of people.The president compounded the problem by saying Republicans are going to become the party of health care without having any plan, let alone a coherent proposal that would produce better results and could get through Congress. Republicans are now deeply divided on what should be done, and the president is no help in setting a course for the party.Yet not all is lost on the issue for Republicans. Many Democrats, by rushing toward a single-payer Medicare for All plan, are being pulled along by ideological yearnings instead of practical realities. Medicare for All would upend all current public and private insurance arrangements, including employer coverage for about 180 million people. Further, even the sponsors admit these plans would require significant middle-class tax increases.What that means is that the door is open for a responsible Republican plan to improve the nation’s mixed public-private health system. If the party’s leaders were so inclined, they could take advantage of the Democratic overreach by embracing reforms that would build upon what exists and make it work better. Such a conservative reform plan would look something like this:Democrats want universal coverage, but actually most of the roughly 28 million uninsured Americans are already eligible for public coverage or an employer plan. That’s not true of 2.5 million people who live in states that have not yet expanded Medicaid and have incomes below the federal poverty line. They are ineligible for the A.CA.’s subsidies and can’t afford to buy coverage on their own. Republicans should embrace a compromise that allows the non-expansion states to expand Medicaid eligibility to 100 percent of the federal poverty line instead of 138 percent as required by the A.C.A. The expansion states could stay at 138 percent if they wanted to. States should also be given more flexibility to run the program with less federal interference in return for accepting limits on overall spending.About 19 million uninsured Americans are already eligible for either Medicaid, subsidized coverage through the A.C.A. or an employer plan. Instead of creating a new insurance program, Congress should make it easier for people to enroll automatically. Employers already use automatic enrollment to expand participation in retirement plans; a similar process could be used to ensure that workers are signed up for health insurance. In addition, states could use tax data to identify individuals who are eligible for insurance subsidies but may not know it. Eligible individuals could be enrolled in a no-cost plan with the option of paying a premium for more generous coverage.Insurers in the individual market often have a small pool of customers with higher annual health expenses than typical ones from group plans. That drives up premiums for everyone, including enrollees with modest health care needs. Some states have lowered premiums in the individual insurance market by providing reinsurance to insurers or organizing high-risk pools that protect against losses stemming from the very high-expense cases. By lowering the risk of large losses, insurers are able to reduce premiums for all of their customers. That also lowers the cost of premium subsidies provided by the federal government. To facilitate nationwide adoption of reinsurance or high-risk pools, some of those federal savings could be offered to states that establish such mechanisms.The most difficult and pressing issue in health care is high and rising costs. Republicans say the answer is stronger market incentives, but they need to back up the rhetoric with concrete reforms. To begin, Congress needs to place an upper limit on the tax break for employer-provided health care to promote more efficient health insurance. The Federal Trade Commission should more aggressively examine business deals that create de facto monopoly providers in local health care markets. Both parties want Medicare to emphasize value instead of volume in the provision of care. To achieve that goal, beneficiaries need clear information on the cost of their care, and they should share in the savings when they choose high-quality, low-cost providers. More broadly, consumers should be able to see the all-in prices they will pay for high-volume procedures. Finally, Republicans should encourage more competition among drug manufacturers and limit abuses that extend monopolistic pricing for years beyond what patent law is supposed to provide. All of these reforms are controversial but crucial to moving the health care system away from the wasteful approaches that drive up costs for everyone.Republicans keep searching for a politically safe silver bullet that slays Obamacare and yet leaves everyone happy. That plan doesn’t exist.But voters aren’t looking for a miracle. They would settle for solid progress. It’s time for Republicans to become the party of responsible health care.Joseph Antos is a scholar in health care and retirement policy at the American Enterprise Institute. James C. Capretta is a resident fellow at the institute.AdvertisementSupported byThe “What’s Covered” app from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services aims to provide yes-or-no answers about what services are covered under traditional Medicare. By Rachel Bluth, Kaiser Health NewsMillennials, beware: Your grandparents are about to start calling you for help downloading the new Medicare smartphone app.The iPhone and Android app, which launched Feb. 6, is called “What’s Covered,” and true to its name, it mostly answers one simple, yes-or-no question: Is this medical procedure covered by traditional Medicare?Milt Roney, a 71-year-old retired government worker in a well-to-do suburb of Washington, D.C., agreed to check out the app with me, though he was skeptical from the outset.“I wouldn’t use an app like that,” Roney said. “[My procedures are] going to be covered, and I’m not going to worry about it.”Still, the app, available free from the Google Play and Apple App stores, is part of a broader Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ initiative, called eMedicare, to put more tools and information about Medicare online. (CMS declined a request for an interview.)But much like the medicare.gov website, it doesn’t delve into individual beneficiaries’ specifics. It doesn’t ask what other coverage he or she might have, so it can’t take into account supplementary insurance, deductibles, coinsurance or other factors that determine cost.“While usable and good for general information, it doesn’t provide personalized information that might be more helpful in making treatment or access decisions,” said Casey Schwarz, senior counsel for the Medicare Rights Center, a nonprofit organization.Milt’s wife, Lisa Roney, 70, joined him to participate in my own “expert panel,” to download the app and try it out.It’s worth noting that these experts were my backup plan. The first couple I approached told me that they’d love to help, but they had “dumb phones” and wouldn’t be able to download anything.This highlights perhaps a more fundamental problem. Many people of Medicare age don’t have a smartphone, and aren’t familiar with apps or comfortable manipulating screens.According to a report from AARP, 46 percent of people in their 60s do not have smartphones. Only 29 percent of the 70-and-older crowd do. The report suggests that the trend will tick upward, with more older Americans owning mobile technology each year.The Roneys both have Medicare Part A and B, which covers hospitalizations and doctor visits. They both have smartphones. As retired government workers, they also both have insurance from GEHA, the Government Employees Health Association, which covers their dental care, prescription drugs and some other expenses. Milt Roney gets some money from GEHA to hand out brochures at health fairs.They consider themselves pretty tech-savvy. They have iPads, personal computers and iPhones. Lisa Roney wears a Fitbit.But they immediately questioned the necessity of the app.“I’d just pick up the phone and call if I had a question about what was covered,” Milt Roney said.“I’d probably just look it up in the [Medicare] book,” Lisa Roney said, pulling the 2-inch manual from a drawer in her office.Then came the first hurdle: downloading the app.Searching “Medicare” in the Google app store, which is where Android users go, yielded many results. “What’s Covered” was first on the list, but it’s far from the only Medicare-related app on the platform. Same experience in the Apple app store, where it took the Roneys a few minutes to sort out exactly which one was the CMS tool. (It’s the one that says “Official Medicare coverage app,” made by the “Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.”)Having completed this part of the process, we moved on.Opening the app immediately gave each of us a search bar to type in a product or service. (I was experimenting, too, though still 40 years shy of Medicare eligibility.) There’s also an option to browse all items and services to see what is covered.A note to readers: I wouldn’t recommend telling your friends you have a fun new game on your phone and then ask them to call out medical procedures to see if they’re covered by Medicare. I can say from experience, it will not make you the most popular 20-something at brunch.The Roneys’ next challenge: figuring out the “search” function.Lisa Roney typed in “dexa scan,” a test her doctor recommended she, like many women her age, undergo to check for osteoporosis.It yielded no results. To find it, Lisa had to browse through the list of covered procedures and go to “bone mass measurements.” There, she found out that Part B covers such tests once every two years, but nowhere in the information did the word “dexa scan” —the term her doctor used — appear.Along the way, she checked her coverage manual and found no additional information. And, in the time it took her to go through these steps, her husband, Milt, got fed up and just Googled it. He found the answer immediately.Such problems with search specificity may be common. One reviewer on the Apple Store lodged a similar complaint.“You have to know the correct terms or browse the entire alphabetical index and select likely candidates,” the user wrote. “For instance ‘knee brace’ comes up with nothing (you have to know to search for generic term ‘brace’).”Ultimately, the app is just another way for beneficiaries, their families and providers to find the same information available on the website and printed in the old-fashioned paper manual they receive by mail. It even uses the same fonts and little apple icons that denote which procedures count as “preventive.”Ms. Schwarz, from the Medicare Rights Center, said a lot of beneficiaries will use the electronic resources to figure out coverage, but they also get help from social workers, volunteers at nonprofits and family members in their research. The app might help those people access information when they don’t want to use the mobile medicare.gov site, which Ms. Schwarz called “not particularly great.”There is also no information about how to choose a prescription drug plan, or other supplemental insurance like Medicare Advantage or Medigap plans, which are the real and complicated decisions beneficiaries must contend with. But those decisions require more personal information, which the app can’t support right now.It’s also important to remember, Ms. Schwarz said, that Medicare doesn’t cover only seniors. People of all ages with disabilities also rely on Medicare for health coverage, and they might find the app easier to use than the traditional website.The Roneys were unimpressed.AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen ZraickMost American teenagers — across demographic groups — see depression and anxiety as major problems among their peers, a new survey by the Pew Research Center found.The survey found that 70 percent of teenagers saw mental health as a big issue. Fewer teenagers cited bullying, drug addiction or gangs as major problems; those from low-income households were more likely to do so.The consistency of the responses about mental health issues across gender, race and income lines was striking, said Juliana Horowitz, an associate director of research at the center.The survey also asked respondents if they considered alcohol consumption or teen pregnancy to be major problems among their peers. Half of the teenagers from households earning less than $30,000 said alcohol was a major problem; that number decreased to 43 percent among teenagers in households earning more than $75,000.Teenagers diverged most drastically across income lines on the issue of teen pregnancy. Fifty-five percent of teenagers in lower-income households said it was a major problem among their peers. Just 22 percent of teenagers in wealthier households agreed.The survey of 920 teenagers ages 13 to 17 in the United States was conducted online and by phone in the fall. In their report, the researchers broke down results by income level and gender but not race or ethnicity, citing the small sample size.Some psychologists have tied a growth in mental health issues among teenagers to increased social media use, academic pressure and frightening events like terror attacks and school shootings.Teenagers who grew up in the post-9/11 era, and amid many school shootings, may have anxiety tied to an environment filled with dire warnings about safety, said Philip Kendall, director of the Child and Adolescent Anxiety Disorders Clinic at Temple University in Philadelphia.His center often helps children distinguish between the possible and the probable, to help put anxiety about frightening but rare events in proper context.Another major stressor is constant surveillance by peers on social media, and the “fear of missing out” it can generate, he added. Again, he said, guidance about how to understand social media — for example, a person taking 50 photos to get one perfect image — can help to dispel anxiety.Increased rates of mental health issues could also be tied to better screening practices, noted Lynn Bufka, an associate executive director at the American Psychological Association.But it is still cause for concern, she said. Teenagers are dealing with rapid changes to their bodies, hormones and lives in an era of nonstop information overload, and they need help developing coping strategies.“It becomes really important for the adults around teens to be stable influences in their lives, to give them space for them to talk,” she said.A study released in 2017 found that the number of children and adolescents admitted to children’s hospitals for thoughts of self-harm or suicide had more than doubled from 2008 to 2015, echoing trends in federal data.Dr. Bufka said her top advice for adults worried about teenagers in their lives was simple: Listen, without “pouring on advice” or judging too much, and give them the opportunity to talk to a counselor or psychologist if needed.“Let them know that you’ve got their back,” she said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert Pear and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — President Trump backed off plans to introduce a Republican replacement for the Affordable Care Act after Senator Mitch McConnell privately warned him that the Senate would not revisit health care in a comprehensive way before the November 2020 elections.Reversing himself in the face of Republican consternation, Mr. Trump said his party would not produce a health care plan of its own, as he had promised, until after the elections, meaning he will only try to fulfill his first-term promise to repeal and replace his predecessor’s signature program if he wins a second term.The president’s abrupt about-face, announced on Twitter on Monday night after talking with Mr. McConnell, all but ensured that health care will take a central place in next year’s campaign, elevating an issue Democrats consider one of their strengths. But it may take the legislative heat off Republicans exasperated by Mr. Trump’s unexpected push to devise a wholesale replacement for President Barack Obama’s health law in the coming months.“I made it clear to him that we were not going to be doing that in the Senate,” Mr. McConnell, the majority leader from Kentucky, said on Tuesday. “He did say, as he later tweeted, that he accepted that and that he would be developing a plan that he would take to the American people during the 2020 campaign.”transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa Tobin and Marc GeorgesThe latest scuffle over health care shows a sea change in the Republican stance heading into 2020.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today, President Trump has backed away from his call to replace the Affordable Care Act with a Republican alternative. Alex Burns on why the president’s own party talked him out of it. It’s Wednesday, April 3.alexander burnsSo last week was as close to a moment of total happiness as President Trump has had in a long time.[music]archived recording 1President Trump’s legal team as well as many of those who are close to the president are saying they feel the Mueller report fully vindicates the president after nearly —archived recording 2There’s no way to take this letter other than a huge win for the president.archived recording 3To say White House officials are happily telling the American people I told you so, well, that would frankly be a bit of an understatement.archived recording (donald trump)And after three years of lies and smears and slander, the Russia hoax is finally dead. The collusion delusion is over.alexander burnsThat’s what makes it all the more surprising that his administration decided to dive right back into one of the most politically damaging fights of his whole presidency, which is health care.archived recording 1The Trump Justice Department just announced a major reversal on Obamacare.archived recording 2Today, he called the Affordable Care Act horrible and is mounting a push to kill it off.archived recording 3Fresh off his Mueller investigation victory, some of his biggest supporters are questioning the timing.archived recording 4Here you have a huge messaging win for the president and the White House with this Mueller summary. Why now? Why do this?archived recording 5Why now, maybe even why at all?michael barbaroAnd how does he dive back into that politically damaging fight?alexander burnsHe directs the Justice Department to take sides in a lawsuit that has been making its way through the federal courts. It was brought by Republican legal officials in a number of states. It has been ruled on by one judge in Texas that the Affordable Care Act is invalid.archived recordingA federal judge in Texas has just struck down Obamacare. True story. Judge Reed O’Connor says the individual mandate, the part of the law that requires you to participate, is unconstitutional. And because it cannot be separated from the rest of the law, which it cannot be, the entire law is invalid.alexander burnsIt is seen as a really long-shot challenge to the Affordable Care Act, something that, in all likelihood, will probably not result in the law being struck down as a whole, but the White House was going to have to decide at some point whether they were going to defend the A.C.A. at the highest levels of the legal system or whether they were going to take sides against a law that’s on the books that Congress failed to repeal when it had the chance. And that’s what they did.archived recording (donald trump)We think it will be upheld, and we think it will do very well in the Supreme Court. And if the Supreme Court rules that Obamacare is out, we will have a plan that’s far better than Obamacare.michael barbaroAnd my sense is that under normal circumstances, the White House almost reflexively defends laws put on the books by Congress.alexander burnsIt’s a pretty extraordinary step for the president to take sides, not just against a law that’s already on the books, but really the biggest piece of social legislation that’s been passed in recent history. And he does it at the urging of some of his most conservative advisers in the White House, including the chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney —archived recording (mick mulvaney)And it’s hard to know where to begin when you’re talking about how bad the current health care legislation is for small business.alexander burns— who, before he was a member of the Trump administration, was a hardliner in the House of Representatives waging war on the Affordable Care Act from Capitol Hill.archived recording (mick mulvaney)It’s almost as if the folks who wrote this piece of legislation last year either have no idea how small business works or they don’t care how small business works. Either way, the current health care legislation is a complete disaster for small business, and —alexander burnsThe argument that Mulvaney and others make is that if the president is going to run for re-election as a guy who made promises and kept his promises, especially to conservative voters who still care a lot about getting rid of Obamacare, he has got to take every chance he has to go against it.michael barbaroAnd given the dynamics of Congress, this is perhaps his best chance?alexander burnsMaybe his only chance, because Democrats now control the House. There is really no shot for Republicans to pass a bill repealing the Affordable Care Act. So if they’re going to take it down, they’re going to take it down in the courts.michael barbaroO.K., well, what is the response to this announcement?alexander burnsWell, Democrats are totally elated.archived recording (nancy pelosi)This is actually an opportunity for us to speak to the American people with clarity.archived recording (chuck schumer)It’s a stark reminder of the difference between our two parties. Democrats are fighting to expand and improve health care coverage and lower costs while Republicans are trying to take it all away and raise costs.alexander burnsThey have spent, at this point, several days on the defensive about some of the claims that they made about what was likely to be in Robert Mueller’s report. They are desperate to get away from their own divisive fights about the nature of liberal health care policy. You have had, in the presidential primaries, in the House of Representatives, even in the Senate where Democrats aren’t in control, just endless tugs of war between moderate liberals, very liberal Democrats, far-left Democrats over what kind of health care system the country ought to have in an ideal world. Should it be European-style single-payer health care? Should it be a system that just totally does away with private health insurance? All these kinds of divisive debates on the left that have had Democrats tripping over each other. But President Trump weighs in the way he does on the Affordable Care Act, and all of a sudden all those conflicts hit pause.archived recording (nancy pelosi)Oh, no, please.archived recording(SINGING) Happy birthday to you!alexander burnsAnd the timing on the Democratic side is sort of comical in that it is literally Nancy Pelosi’s 79th birthday —archived recordingHappy birthday to you.alexander burns— the morning after this Justice Department announcement comes out. And when you have Democrats singing “Happy Birthday” to her, there was this sense in the caucus that she had gotten the best gift a president could have given her.michael barbaroWhat is the reaction from Republicans in Congress?alexander burnsWell, real dismay and surprise and sort of horror.archived recordingEven Republicans appear bewildered by President Trump’s promise to make the G.O.P. the party of health care.alexander burnsAnd not just from the few remaining relatively moderate Republicans.archived recordingSome Republicans are nervous about that, including House minority leader Kevin McCarthy. According to Axios, McCarthy called the president and told him the decision made no sense, saying the health care battle helped Democrats win the House and several state capitals last year.alexander burnsEvery Republican analysis of the midterm elections concluded that they lost the House because of health care more than any other individual policy issue. So if you are Kevin McCarthy, the new House minority leader, you are just appalled at the idea that your members are now going to have to have this fight all over again.michael barbaroRight. We had talked about this with you during the midterms — that there had been this huge public shift on Obamacare and that voters who might have previously been against it now do not want it taken away.alexander burnsThat’s right. It was less of a thank you to Democrats than a punishment for Republicans, that Democrats never got the political boost back in 2010, 2012, 2014 that they hoped they would get for passing a big new social benefit. But what they did ultimately get was the benefit of voters turning against Republicans who wanted to take those benefits away. So Obamacare as a term, as a law, still kind of a mixed bag politically, but there are elements in that law, like protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions, that are enormously popular. And Republicans look back on the last campaign, the one that ended really rather badly for them, and see that as, more than anything else, the fatal political mistake they made.michael barbaroSo why would President Trump, the leader of the Republican Party, who had to have watched that same midterm that you’re describing, why would he do this if the takeaway of that midterm is that the Affordable Care Act is no longer toxic and might even be liked by a wide cross-section of Americans?alexander burnsIn the president’s public statements, and as far as we can tell based on his personal thinking, he recognizes that health care is a huge political vulnerability for Republicans, that the last thing they did on health care, that big repeal drive, was politically devastating to them. And his proclamation that they need to become the party of health care clearly reflects an understanding that a problem needs to be fixed.archived recording (donald trump)So we’re going to get rid of Obamacare. And I said it the other day. The Republican Party will become the party of great health care. It’s good. It’s important.michael barbaroI guess I can see President Trump’s argument there. It feels kind of legitimate. Wouldn’t it be smart for Republicans heading into the next presidential election, 2020, to recognize that there are things that voters like about the Affordable Care Act? But in order for it to be a benefit for the Republicans and not the Democrats, they need to convince voters that the Democratic plan is a bad one and that Republicans will give them a better one.alexander burnsRight. But giving voters a better version of health care provided by the Republican Party has always had to mean more than just getting rid of the system that currently exists. It’s this strange kind of bifurcated mental space that Republicans have been living in politically, where they want to run against Democrats for trying to blow up the health care system and replace it with single-payer, and, on the other side, they want to get rid of much of the existing health care system and replace it with something to be named later.michael barbaroIn other words, they don’t really have a plan to replace it.alexander burnsThey don’t, and they kind of never have, not a consensus plan that’s supported by a broad cross-section of the party and voters. And that’s why when the president came out with this position through the Justice Department and then suggested that Republicans in Congress ought to come up with something great, the backlash from Republicans at the highest levels of the congressional party was swift and severe. The view among congressional Republicans was that this was just sort of a total fantasy coming from the president. The idea that they would not only come up with a plan and come up with a plan that would be popular and meet the standards that the president has laid out in rally after rally, but that they would do it within a year and then run on it in 2020 just seemed like it was cut from whole cloth.michael barbaroIs there also a feeling among Republicans toward the president along the lines of, dude, we just want to stop calling attention to this issue. It’s a losing issue for us. Stop drawing attention to it.alexander burnsOh, absolutely. And if the concern among folks like Mick Mulvaney is that walking away from the fight looks like surrender, the view from a lot of Republicans on the Hill is they’ve already lost. They can talk about how they lost, or they can talk about other stuff, and the president is choosing to talk about defeat.michael barbaroRight. Instead of talking about what I had imagined Republicans would be talking about for the next couple of months and maybe even the next year, which is the Democratic fight over “Medicare for all,” the Democratic fight over whether private insurance should even exist — I had expected that that would be the consuming discussion in the political world and in the political campaigns to come when it came to health care.alexander burnsSo did I, and I think so did a lot of Republican candidates down the ballot preparing for 2020. There was always going to be tension in the Republican message about Democratic radicalism on health care, because if you are running in 2020 on the idea that Democrats are going to blow up the current system and replace it with European-style medicine, you’re kind of implicitly defending the status quo system as it exists under Obamacare. It’s an extraordinarily awkward position for Republicans to be in. Can you be opposed to Democratic proposals to make the health care system even more liberal, even more regulated or structured by the government, without essentially defending the system that Barack Obama put in place? We don’t know how they’re going to walk that line. We don’t know to what extent they’ll even try. But the president’s current approach, which is to say that Democrats will do something drastic and bad to your health care, and I’m not quite going to tell you what I’m going to do yet, doesn’t seem sustainable.michael barbaroSo what happens in the last 24 hours or so to this Trump-led project to try to strike down, repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act?alexander burnsWell, after days of other Republicans expressing public discomfort with where the president was headed —archived recording (mitch mcconnell)So I made it clear to him we were not going to be doing that in the Senate.alexander burns— Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, conveyed in no uncertain terms to the White House that this was a non-starter in the Senate, that the president was free to do what he wanted to do on health care, but that Senate Republicans were not going to be taking the lead on this. It was not a fight they wanted, period, full stop.archived recording (mitch mcconnell)So we don’t have a misunderstanding about that. We will not be doing comprehensive in the Senate.alexander burnsThe president seemed to have gotten the message.archived recordingPresident Trump on the retreat.archived recording (donald trump)No, I wanted to delay it myself. I want to put it after the election.alexander burnsAnd his response was to go onto Twitter and to declare that they are totally going to do all the things that he said they were going to do, but at a much later date, after the 2020 election.michael barbaroRight. He cited the date 2021. We will do all this right after the election.alexander burnsRight after an election when, in his construction, he would be re-elected, Republicans would hold the Senate, and they would take back control of the House. So that’s not just a delay of game. That is setting a whole bunch of other conditions on what would need to happen to get there.michael barbaroWere you surprised, Alex, that the president backed down on this so quickly?alexander burnsI was surprised by how fast it happened. I wasn’t surprised that he sort of came up with a really big theory of what should happen next and then eventually let it disintegrate, because we’ve seen that pattern a number of times. But to pick a fight this big and to stick with it for so little time is the definition of politically counterproductive.michael barbaroSo now, we are basically back where we started. The Affordable Care Act is likely to remain the law of the land. So what did we learn from this weeklong ordeal?alexander burnsWell, the biggest thing we learned is that the politics of health care have been turned on their head in the last couple of years, and that the Affordable Care Act is no longer a liability for Democrats, and that Republicans, whether they want to acknowledge it or not, have largely abandoned the fight.[music] The fact that you had the senior-most members of the congressional party saying so clearly to a president they helped elect and have loyally supported, we don’t want to touch health care — it would have been sort of unimaginable to someone five years ago that that would happen with a Republican president in office.michael barbaroAlex, thank you very much.alexander burnsThank you.[music]alexander burnsTomorrow’s my birthday, so this is like a little birthday special.michael barbaroYay! Is that on the mic?lisa tobinHappy birthday tomorrow!michael barbaroWe’ll be right back. [MUSIC]: Here’s what else you need to know today.archived recording (theresa may)Despite the best efforts of M.P.s, the process that the House of Commons has tried to lead has not come up with an answer. So today, I’m taking action to break the logjam.michael barbaroIn her latest attempt to rally support for Brexit after a series of embarrassing setbacks, British prime minister Theresa May said she would seek a new delay for leaving the European Union and would begin negotiating a Brexit plan with her political rivals in the Labour Party.archived recording (theresa may)I’m offering to sit down with the leader of the opposition and to try to agree a plan that we would both stick to to ensure that we leave the European Union and that we do so with a deal.michael barbaroThe attempt to work across the aisle with the Labour Party suggests that May cannot win enough support within her own Conservative Party to pass her Brexit plan.archived recording (theresa may)The ideal outcome of this process would be to agree an approach on a future relationship that delivers on the result of the referendum that both the leader of the opposition and I could put to the House for approval, and which I could then take to next week’s European Council.michael barbaroUnless May secures another delay, Britain is currently scheduled to leave the E.U. without a negotiated plan on April 12. That’s it for “The Daily.” I’m Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.The president’s last attempt to replace Mr. Obama’s health care program blew up in 2017 when his party controlled both houses of Congress. Democrats seized the House in last year’s midterm elections in part on a promise to defend the most popular parts of the Affordable Care Act, so when Mr. Trump revived the issue last week, it distressed Republicans who consider it a political liability.Mr. Trump had surprised allies by ordering his administration to ask a federal court to invalidate the entire Affordable Care Act and then promised a Republican replacement. Democrats, consumer groups, doctors, hospitals and insurance companies have said that 20 million people could lose health coverage if courts accept the administration’s argument.Mr. McConnell said he spoke with Mr. Trump on Monday afternoon to explain that the Senate would not return to the issue in a broad way before the next election. “I pointed out to him the Senate Republicans’ view on dealing with comprehensive health care reform with a Democratic House of Representatives,” Mr. McConnell said.But if that warning was meant to quiet the president, it did not work. Hours later, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, “The Republicans are developing a really great HealthCare Plan with far lower premiums (cost) & deductibles than ObamaCare.”“In other words it will be far less expensive & much more usable than ObamaCare,” he said in a string of three tweets posted Monday night. “Vote will be taken right after the Election when Republicans hold the Senate & win back the House.”Democrats jumped at the opening.“Last night the president tweeted that they will come up with their plan in 2021,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said at a rally in front of the Supreme Court. “Translation: they have no health care plan. It’s the same old song they’ve been singing. They’re for repeal. They have no replace.”Mr. Trump appeared to be gambling that he could turn the tables on an issue that has long favored Democrats by portraying them as increasingly extreme. Even as party liberals, including some presidential candidates, embrace the idea of “Medicare for all,” Republicans have used it to accuse Democrats of favoring a socialist, government-run health care system that would close down all private insurers.“I see what the Democrats are doing; it’s a disaster what they’re planning and everyone knows it,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Tuesday at the White House. “You’re going to lose 180 million people under their private insurance.”Wary of such attacks, the Democratic congressional leadership has played down a single-payer system run by the government and advanced incremental measures to shore up the health care law and lower prescription drug prices.Many Republicans in Congress were happy to assail Medicare for all but not enthusiastic about ditching Mr. Obama’s program without a ready replacement. No plan of their own could pass the House, but it would invariably require policy choices that Democrats could attack.Even some of the president’s own advisers were confounded by his move. Soon after the president decided last week to intervene in a Texas court case on the side of invalidating the entire Affordable Care Act without a Plan B, Mr. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence held a conference call with Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and Brad Parscale, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager.Both Mr. Parscale and Ms. McDaniel tried to tell the president that they could not understand what he was doing, according to a person familiar with the call.Mr. Trump replied that if they did nothing, Democrats would continue to own the issue and the other option was being known as the party that could not figure out how to properly draft a health care legislative package, the person said.In several private conversations since last week, Mr. McConnell told the president that he believed Democrats owned the dysfunction associated with the Affordable Care Act and that Mr. Trump was essentially letting them off the hook by inserting himself into the debate again, according to another person briefed on those discussions.Mr. Trump denied on Tuesday that Mr. McConnell asked him to back off, saying, “I wanted to delay it myself” because Republicans do not control the House. “So if we get back the House and on the assumption we keep the Senate and we keep the presidency — which I hope are two good assumptions — we’re going to have a phenomenal health care,” he said.Seeking to capitalize on the issue, the House will vote this week on a resolution urging the Justice Department to reverse its position and defend the 2010 health care law in court, forcing lawmakers to take a side on the case.“The American people deserve to know exactly where their representatives stand on the Trump administration’s vicious campaign to take away their health care,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi.The resolution, offered by a freshman Democrat, Representative Colin Allred of Texas, says that the Justice Department should “cease any and all efforts to destroy Americans’ access to affordable health care, and reverse its position” in the court case, Texas v. United States.Some of the president’s senior advisers pushed him to join the lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the entire current health care law, a more expansive position than the administration had taken previously, when it argued that protections for people with pre-existing conditions should be struck down.But others raised concerns, including the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone. Mr. Cipollone said that Attorney General William P. Barr had issues with joining the suit, too. But once the president made clear his mind was made up, the Justice Department went along without complaint, people familiar with the events said.Among those objecting was Senator Susan Collins, a moderate Republican from Maine who sent a letter to Mr. Barr expressing her “profound disagreement” with the move.“Rather than seeking to have the courts invalidate the A.C.A.,” she wrote, referring to the Affordable Care Act, “the proper route for the administration to pursue would be to propose changes to the A.C.A. or to once again seek its repeal. The administration should not attempt to use the courts to bypass Congress.”Mr. McConnell sought to calm Republican nerves, saying “there’s no point in pushing the panic button” because the court system would take a long time to resolve the dispute.“I don’t think any of these policies are in any immediate danger,” he said.Mr. Trump has basically commissioned four Republican senators to devise a replacement for the Affordable Care Act. The group consists of two doctors, John Barrasso of Wyoming and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, as well as Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a close ally of the president, and Senator Rick Scott of Florida, who was the chief executive of a large for-profit hospital firm before he entered politics.Mr. Scott said on Tuesday that he was focused on bringing down health costs, especially prescription drug prices. “Obamacare has made health care way more expensive,” he said. “Co-payments are up. Deductibles are up. Premiums have skyrocketed.”When asked about developing a wholesale replacement for the Affordable Care Act, Mr. Scott responded, “I’m a business guy,” adding, “I didn’t try to do grand bargains.”Peter Baker and Eileen Sullivan contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported bylettersGoing forward, which changes make sense? To the Editor:Re “What’s Good Health Care Worth?” (editorial, Feb. 17):Thirty-six thousand Americans die prematurely each year because they are uninsured. And more than half a million households declare bankruptcy each year because of illness or medical bills. Who could possibly benefit from such an inhumane system?Private insurers.High deductibles and co-pays, narrow networks of doctors, and prior authorization paperwork keep patients from getting the care they need, while funneling more money into the pockets of insurance companies. Private insurers add nothing of value to our health care system and drain billions of dollars that should be spent on patient care.A single-payer “Medicare for all” system would end this needless loss of life and life savings.Claudia FeganChicagoThe writer is the chief medical officer of Cook County Health and the national coordinator of Physicians for a National Health Program.To the Editor:As a member of a team of economists that conducted a comprehensive study of the costs of Medicare for all, I want to clarify several issues raised in your editorial. First, both opponents and advocates of Medicare for all agree it would bring down national health care spending. The only area of disagreement is by how much. Ten-year savings estimates range from $2 trillion (Koch-funded Mercatus Center) to $5 trillion (our estimate). With no premiums, co-pays or deductibles, 80 percent of Americans will pay less for health care and be able to choose their providers as Medicare beneficiaries do today. Second, our analysis invests $65 billion in job retraining, wage replacement and preserving pensions for those losing their insurance-related jobs — and we still find overall savings.Third, Medicare buy-in proposals keep cost-sharing (coinsurance and deductibles) high, do little to rein in overall spending, and force people to make costly choices between needed care and significant medical debt. Finally, who actually loves their private insurance? Not those who need medical care and discover they must confront insurers regarding restrictive provider networks, pre-approvals, denials in coverage and high out-of-pocket costs.Peter S. ArnoHastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.The writer is a senior fellow and the director of health policy research for the Political Economy Research Institute, University of Massachusetts-Amherst.To the Editor:Medicare for all will be at center stage in the 2020 elections. But other approaches for universal coverage need not wait. In California, we recently released a public/private plan to achieve universal coverage by expanding access to Medi-Cal and key features of the Affordable Care Act. It builds on California’s integrated care delivery models and is financed by a provider tax, a mandated employer tax on those who do not offer coverage to their workers, and a small share of state funds. This public/private approach can help frame the 2020 debate on universal coverage.Richard M. SchefflerStephen M. ShortellBerkeley, Calif.The writers are professors at the School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley.To the Editor:Your thoughtful editorial on health care insurance leaves out one crucial barrier to universal coverage: Wall Street. Not all health insurance companies are publicly traded, of course. But those that are — UnitedHealthcare, Anthem, Aetna, Cigna and Humana among them — deliver enormous dividends to investors. The dismantling of the health insurance industry is likely to have widespread and lingering repercussions for the overall national economy.Although I am among those eager for universal coverage, patience and an incremental approach seem prudent.Erika RosenfeldNew YorkTo the Editor:It’s telling that in the long editorial on options for health care policy, there is no mention of the needs of physicians or patients. The focus is on health “coverage” not actual health “care,” the assumption being that the latter depends entirely on the former. Employers, the government and insurers have become the only stakeholders that matter, yet medical care takes place on an entirely personal level. And thinking about solutions that benefit the system first will always fail. AdvertisementSupported byBy Reed AbelsonIn a scathing decision released Tuesday, a federal judge in Northern California ruled that a unit of UnitedHealth Group, the giant health insurer, had created internal policies aimed at effectively discriminating against patients with mental health and substance abuse disorders to save money.U.S. Chief Magistrate Judge Joseph C. Spero found that United Behavioral Health, the insurer’s unit that administers treatments for mental illness and addiction in private health plans, had violated its fiduciary duty under federal law.In his 106-page decision, Judge Spero described the company’s guidelines as “unreasonable and an abuse of discretion” and having been “infected” by financial incentives meant to restrict access to care.“There is an excessive emphasis on addressing acute symptoms and stabilizing crises while ignoring the effective treatment of members’ underlying conditions,” he said. He dismissed much of the testimony by UnitedHealth’s experts as “evasive — and even deceptive.”Patients said they were denied care as soon as they appeared stable. One of the plaintiffs in the case said in a filing her son, who struggled with substance abuse, died after he was forced to leave a residential treatment facility when the insurer denied coverage.“In our view, it’s a monumental win for mental health and substance abuse patients,” said D. Brian Hufford, an attorney with Zuckerman Spaeder, who, along with Psych-Appeal, a private law firm specializing in insurance coverage for mental health issues, is representing the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs are part of a class-action lawsuit against United Behavioral Health, and say they were covered under the United plans from 2011 to 2017 and denied care.In the aftermath of the ruling, the company maintained that it had not failed to provide the proper care.“We look forward to demonstrating in the next phase of this case how our members received appropriate care,” said UnitedHealth in an emailed statement. “We remain committed to providing our members with access to the right care for the treatment of mental health conditions and substance use disorders.”Judge Spero is expected to reach a final judgment in the next few months.The case represents the latest development in the contentious debate over how health insurance companies cover mental health and substance abuse disorders, as compared to medical conditions like diabetes, multiple sclerosis and asthma. In spite of the passage of a federal law, the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008, patients have long complained about the difficulty of getting care covered, especially when they are in no immediate danger.When the federal parity law prevented insurers from placing sharp limits on behavioral health coverage, the companies “came up with an even more insidious approach,” Mr. Hufford said, by developing internal rules that focused on providing expensive outpatient and residential care only when patients were acutely ill.Once the acute condition was treated, the companies would reduce or deny services, he said. The care “wasn’t addressing the underlying issue or the chronic condition,” he said.Advocates praised the judge’s decision as making clear that insurers cannot ignore standards that would be applied to other forms of medical care in determining whether they will cover a mental health or substance abuse treatment. “This should put health plans on notice that they simply can’t make up the rules as they go along,” said Angela Kimball, the national director of public policy and advocacy for NAMI, the National Alliance on Mental Illness.Such denials of care are not limited to UnitedHealth, said Patrick Kennedy, the mental health advocate and former member of Congress who is pushing for stronger enforcement of federal and state parity laws. The judge’s ruling that UnitedHealth had not complied with the law is an “independent validation of what we have as advocates been saying for 11 years since this law was passed,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byThe United States should look to Germany, not Canada, for the best model.By Jamie DawDr. Daw teaches health policy and management at Columbia University.As a Canadian living and studying health policy in the United States, I’ve watched with interest as a growing list of Democratic presidential candidates — Senators Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand and Cory Booker — have indicated support for a Canadian-style single-payer plan with little or no role for private insurance. Approval of such a system has become almost a litmus test for the party’s progressive base.But rather than looking north for inspiration, American health care reformers would be better served looking east, across the Atlantic.Germany offers a health insurance model that, like Canada’s, results in far less spending than in the United States, while achieving universal, comprehensive coverage. The difference is that Germany’s is a multipayer model, which builds more naturally on the American health insurance system.Although it receives little attention in the United States, this model, pioneered by Chancellor Otto von Bismarck in 1883, was the first social health insurance system in the world. It has since been copied across Europe and Asia, becoming far more common than the Canadian single-payer model. This model ensures that all citizens have access to affordable health care, but it also incorporates age-old American values of choice and private competition in health insurance.Germans are required to have health insurance, but they can choose between more than 100 private nonprofit insurers called “sickness funds.” Workers and employers share the cost of insurance through payroll taxes, while the government finances coverage for children and the unemployed. Insurance plans are not tied to employers. Services are funded through progressive taxation, so access is based on need, not ability to pay, and financial contributions are based on wealth, not health. Contributions to sickness funds are centrally pooled and then allocated to individual insurers using a per-beneficiary formula that factors in differences in health risks. The United States has the foundation for this kind of system. Its Social Security and Medicare systems use taxation to pay for social insurance policies, and the health care exchanges created by the Affordable Care Act provide marketplaces for insurance policies.In an American version of this system, private insurers would have to be heavily regulated to ensure that coverage was affordable and to prevent the sort of rapid increases in premiums, deductibles and cost-sharing that have occurred over the past decade. Similar to regulations for Medicare and Medicaid, insurers would be required to provide a comprehensive set of benefits with limits on patient cost-sharing, which could be means-tested or tied to other criteria, such as having a chronic disease. In Germany, for example, insurers can charge only small out-of-pocket fees limited to 2 percent or less of household income annually. Compared with the mostly fee-for-service, single-payer arrangements in Canada or the Medicare system, enrolling Americans in managed care plans paid on a per-patient basis would offer greater incentives to increase efficiency, improve quality of care and promote coordination of care.Under a German-style plan, states could still be given flexibility in regulating nonprofit insurers to reflect regional priorities, similar to the flexibility offered to states in managing Medicaid and the A.C.A. exchanges.Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and other countries with similar systems vastly underspend the United States. Americans may be concerned that lower spending reflects rationing of care, but research has consistently found that not to be the case. Other high-income countries spend less on health care than the United States because they have lower prices, not because they receive less care. In Germany, sickness funds leverage market power to secure lower prices, coming together regionally to negotiate contracts with doctors and hospitals, and nationally to negotiate drug prices. Administrative and governance costs in multipayer systems are higher than in single-payer systems — 5 percent of health spending in Germany compared with 3 percent in Canada. But there is much room to cut prices. If, for example, insurers were able, on average, to achieve hospital and physician prices at the level of Medicare, and prescription drug prices at the level of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the savings would be significant.While recent polls indicate that a majority of Americans support so-called Medicare for all, approval diminishes when the plan is explained or clarified. The former Starbucks chief executive, Howard Schultz, who is considering running for president, called the proposal to eliminate private health insurance “not American.” A German-style multipayer road to universal coverage might receive a much warmer reception.Americans have long valued choice and competition in their health care. The German model offers both: Patients choose private insurers that compete for enrollees, in the process driving innovation and improving quality. If the United States adopted this model, insurance companies would be more tightly regulated and required to become nonprofits, and some job losses would be likely. But they would not need to be eliminated, an idea suggested, and then retracted, by Ms. Harris in her call for Medicare for all.The diversity of health financing arrangements globally demonstrates that there are many possible paths to achieving universal health care at an affordable cost — as Ms. Harris’s advisers acknowledged after walking back her call for the elimination of private insurance. Advocates and policymakers should pick carefully among these paths, choosing one that strikes a balance between what is possible and what is ideal for the United States health system. While the single-payer model serves Canada well, transitioning the United States to a multipayer model like Germany’s would require a far smaller leap. And that might encourage Americans to finally make the jump.Jamie Daw is assistant professor of health policy and management at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health.AdvertisementSupported byHigher levels of pollution were linked to a greater likelihood of psychotic experiences ranging from a mild feeling of paranoia to a severe psychotic symptoms. By Nicholas BakalarUrban air pollution is associated with an increased risk for psychotic experiences in teenagers, researchers report.A study published in JAMA Psychiatry included 2,063 British teenagers whose health had been followed from birth through age 18. Almost a third of them said they had at least one psychotic experience, ranging from a mild feeling of paranoia to a severe psychotic symptom, since age 12.Researchers linked air pollution data to locations where they spent most of their time — at home, school or work.Compared with teenagers who lived where pollution was lowest, those in the most polluted areas were 27 percent to 72 percent more likely to have psychotic experiences, depending on the type of pollutant; exposure to two pollutants, nitrogen dioxide and nitrogen oxides, accounted for 60 percent of the association.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — A federal judge on Thursday struck down a Trump administration rule that allows small businesses to band together and set up health insurance plans that skirt requirements of the Affordable Care Act.The rule is “clearly an end-run around the A.C.A.,” said the judge, John D. Bates, of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia.The ruling was the second big defeat this week for President Trump on a top-priority item on his health care agenda as he has sought to use the courts to obliterate his predecessor’s signature achievement. Another judge on Wednesday blocked Medicaid work requirements in Arkansas and Kentucky.Mr. Trump promoted the small-business health plans as a way to save people from the “nightmare of Obamacare.” He told small-business owners in June that “you’re going to save massive amounts of money and have much better health care.”In the economic report of the president released last week, the White House said the small-business plans — known as association health plans — showed how consumers benefit when the government reduces federal regulations and increases “choice and competition in health care markets.”But Judge Bates said that the rule authorizing such health plans was unlawful and must be set aside because it “does violence” to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the framework for employer-sponsored health plans covering tens of millions of Americans.Large employer-sponsored health plans can avoid some requirements of the Affordable Care Act. But Judge Bates said that the Trump administration had improperly stretched the statutory definition of “employer” to include “virtually any association of disparate employers connected by geographic proximity” — as well as sole proprietors who own businesses without any employees.The lawsuit, New York v. United States Department of Labor, was filed by New York and 10 other states.“We are pleased that the District Court saw past the Trump administration’s transparent effort to sabotage our health care system and gut these critical consumer protections in the service of its partisan agenda,” Letitia James, the attorney general of New York State, said Thursday night.Judge Bates said that the final rule issued by Mr. Trump and Labor Secretary Alexander Acosta “creates absurd results under the Affordable Care Act.” For example, he said, two business owners who have no employees would be treated as both employers and employees.Likewise, he said, a group of 51 individuals, none of whom employ anyone, would be treated as 52 employers (counting the association as an employer) and 51 employees and would be free from many requirements of the Affordable Care Act that apply to health insurance in the individual and small-group markets.The Trump administration’s attempt to squeeze self-employed individuals into the definition of employer is “a magic trick,” and the rationale offered by the Labor Department is a sleight of hand, Judge Bates said.Moreover, he said, in issuing its rule for small business health plans, the Trump administration ignored the language and purpose of both the Affordable Care Act and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, known as Erisa.The final rule, he said, illegally “expands the definition of ‘employers’ to include groups without any real commonality of interest and to bring working owners without employees within Erisa’s scope.”“Because the final rule stretches the definitions of ‘employer’ beyond what the statute can bear, the final rule is unlawful” under the Administrative Procedure Act, which sets the standards for federal rule-making, the judge said.Republicans in Congress have been trying for two decades to promote association health plans through legislation. Using his regulatory authority, Mr. Trump tried to do what Congress could not accomplish.Representative Robert C. Scott, Democrat of Virginia and the chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, said Judge Bates’s ruling was “an important victory for workers and consumers who would be harmed by the administration’s decision to expand the reach of association health plans.”“The Department of Labor’s final rule is one of numerous examples of this administration’s efforts to sabotage the Affordable Care Act through executive action,” Mr. Scott said.Judge Bates voided major provisions of the rule and sent it back to the Labor Department to determine if any of the rule could be salvaged.Under the rule, issued by the Trump administration in June, association health plans were exempt from many consumer-protection mandates in the Affordable Care Act. They were not always required to provide “essential health benefits” like mental health care, drug abuse treatment, emergency services and prescription drugs.Labor Department officials said association health plans would not be able to deny coverage or charge higher rates to individual employees with pre-existing medical conditions.Small-business health plans have a long history of fraud and abuse that have left employers and employees with hundreds of millions of dollars in unpaid medical bills. The problems are described in dozens of court cases and enforcement actions taken over more than a decade by federal and state officials who regulate the plans.In many cases, the Labor Department said, it has targeted “unscrupulous promoters who sell the promise of inexpensive health benefit insurance but default on their obligations.” In several cases, it has found that people managing these health plans diverted premiums to their personal use.Trump administration officials had said they would tighten supervision of the plans to prevent repetition of such abuses.On Monday, the Trump administration broadened its attack on the Affordable Care Act, telling a federal appeals court that the entire law should be invalidated. If the appeals court accepts the administration’s arguments, millions of people could lose health insurance, including those who gained coverage through the expansion of Medicaid and those who have private coverage subsidized by the federal government.The administration’s position, urging the appeals court to throw out all of the Affordable Care Act, stunned members of Congress, including many Republican senators who said they had no desire to revisit the issue after their failure to repeal the law in 2017.But Mr. Trump plowed ahead, promising to devise a replacement for the Affordable Care Act.“The cost of Obamacare to people is far too much,” Mr. Trump said on Thursday. “The deductibility is ridiculous. It averages more than $7,000, meaning it’s unusable. So Obamacare has been a disaster.”AdvertisementSupported byA battle is looming over universal health care. Politicians and voters will have to decide whether the trade-offs are worth it.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.It’s been nearly 10 years since the passage of the Affordable Care Act — one of the most sweeping health care overhauls in the nation’s history. The law has brought the number of uninsured people in America to an all-time low, secured protections for people with pre-existing conditions and advanced the notion that health care is a human right.But the system was never perfect, and its fractures and stress points have become too great to ignore. The number of people who are uninsured or underinsured is rising again, after two years of sabotage to the current law by the Trump administration. A Republican-led lawsuit that once seemed like a lark is threatening Obamacare’s protections for pre-existing conditions. And high out-of-pocket costs, absurd hospital billing practices and ever-rising prescription drug prices have forced too many people to skip crucial treatments, avoid emergency rooms and ration life-sustaining medications.America may be a country rich in medical innovation — a place where robots perform surgery — but it’s also one where tens of thousands of people die every year because they can’t afford basic care.Both parties seem certain to make health care a significant election issue over the next two years. There are no fewer than six Democratic bills floating through Congress that would address these problems. And “Medicare for all” — a concept that describes only some of those proposals — has become both a rallying cry and a test of progressive credentials. Voters, however, appear more ambivalent. Though health care has long topped the electorate’s list of concerns, including in the 2018 midterms, surveys suggest that most Democrats want their party to focus on fixing the Affordable Care Act rather than on starting a long-shot bid for a single-payer health care system. In a recent Kaiser Family Foundation poll, some 56 percent of Americans, including nearly a quarter of Republicans, supported the idea of a new federal program; but when trade-offs like higher taxes or the loss of private insurance options were factored in, that support evaporated.As the 2020 race heats up, here’s a primer to help citizens sort out where they stand.The plans currently in play differ in their particulars: Senator Bernie Sanders’s Medicare for All Act would scrap private insurance and create a new federal system to cover everyone; a plan from the Center for American Progress, a think tank, would create an optional public program that anyone could buy into; and a plan from Senator Debbie Stabenow would give all Americans the option to buy into Medicare when they turn 50. But these plans would extend coverage to more people and would increase the federal government’s role in providing and policing health insurance.The proposals fall into two broad categories: universal and incremental. On the universal side, Medicare for all would largely eliminate the need for private insurance and for other public programs like Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program. Its coverage would also be more expansive than current Medicare: It would include eye and dental care as well as prescription drugs, and it would eliminate premiums, deductibles, copays and surprise medical bills. A single federal payer — as such proposals envision — may well eliminate the waste, inefficiency and corruption that make the current system so expensive and inaccessible; the experience of countries like Canada and Britain that rely heavily on one government payer suggests as much. But such a system would require dramatic changes from the status quo and would be a tough political sell. What’s more, single-payer is not the only way to achieve universal coverage.On the incremental side, several different proposals would allow certain people to buy into existing public plans. Some would enable older Americans who are not yet eligible for Medicare to buy into that program — at age 50 or 55 or 60. One would let people who don’t have other insurance coverage buy into Medicaid (as long as their state opted into the program).Because these programs don’t rely on a single payer, they would not do as much to clean up the existing system. But they have a better chance of being adopted by Congress, and some could bring the country very close to achieving universal coverage. A recent Kaiser poll found that the potential loss of private insurance was what turned most people off the concept of Medicare for all. That’s not surprising. About half of all Americans — some 156 million people — get their health insurance through employer-based plans, and another 30 million rely on other forms of private coverage, including the A.C.A. marketplace and Medicare Advantage plans. The vast majority of those people say that they like their coverage. And so far, the majority of Americans seem loath to give up what they have, no matter how good the alternative is made to sound.That’s too bad. The idea of forcing more than half the country off existing programs might sound scary, but the majority of those people are at constant risk of losing their health coverage — for instance, if they lose or leave their jobs, if their employers change plans or if their insurers change their terms in ways that increase out-of-pocket costs. Still, the choice between universal health care and private insurance will very likely prove to be a false one. Most of the six plans leave ample room for private options to play a role, and the ones that don’t — the true Medicare for all proposals — will almost certainly change as they are negotiated. As Vox points out, no other country has managed to achieve universal health care without including some form of private insurance. Proponents of Medicare for all say that total health care spending would remain roughly the same, but that more of that spending would be shouldered by the federal government and less of it would be wasted.A single-payer system would mean fewer administrative costs. Eliminating other government programs would free up billions of dollars for the new plan. And eliminating private insurers would bring billions more dollars worth of profits and employer taxes back into the health care system. (Businesses currently enjoy a tax break on the money they spend covering their employees.)But there would also be new taxes. Proponents say that, to the extent those taxes fell on consumers, they would be offset by the elimination of premiums, deductibles and copays. But that may not be enough to assuage voters. In Vermont and Colorado, legislators dropped bids for a state-run single-payer system when it became clear that people would not support the tax increases needed to sustain such a program. Taxes are not the only trade-off. Increased efficiency and less profiteering should mean that more people would be covered and could afford the care they needed. But a single-payer system could also mean the elimination of many thousands of health care jobs and lower pay for providers, both of which could impede access to, and the quality of, care. Those impediments could be small — slightly longer wait times, for example. Or they could be substantial — much longer wait times and far fewer doctors.There are two basic ways for insurance programs to curb costs. One is to cover fewer things; the other is to negotiate on prices.Medicare for all would forgo the first option, meaning that it would cover everything. But it would use the massive bargaining power of so many users — the entire United States population — to negotiate far better deals on prescription drugs, hospital stays and more. The different incremental programs would use both levers: Most would not cover vision or dental, for example. But all of them would also direct the secretary of health and human services to negotiate costs with providers.Most other countries use negotiating power to control health care costs; that’s why prescription drugs cost so much less elsewhere than they do in the United States. But those countries accept a trade-off, inherent in this approach, that the United States has so far resisted: They forgo access to certain innovations, like pricey new drugs and medical devices whose benefits are found to be minimal.A plan that results in higher taxes but skimps on cutting-edge medicine may seem unfair — and may well be unpopular. But many Americans are already being denied essential services every day. It may make sense to forgo innovations that a growing number of people can’t benefit from anyway in exchange for a program that sets fair prices at the outset and doesn’t leave people rationing low-tech essentials or begging for donations to cover basic costs.The fight to once again remake American health care will almost certainly be brutal. Before voters can decide if they want to have that fight, candidates will need to clarify what they are selling. Only then can the nation have an honest dialogue about the risks, benefits and trade-offs ahead. AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — Democrats won control of the House in large part on the strength of their argument that Congress needs to protect people with pre-existing medical conditions and to lower the cost of health care.On Tuesday, Democratic leaders, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi, will put aside, at least for now, the liberal quest for a government-run “Medicare for all” single-payer system and unveil a more incremental approach toward fulfilling those campaign promises. Building on the Affordable Care Act, they would offer more generous subsidies for the purchase of private health insurance offered through the health law’s insurance exchanges while financing new efforts to increase enrollment.They would also reverse actions by the Trump administration that allow insurance companies to circumvent protections in the Affordable Care Act for people with pre-existing conditions. Insurers could no longer sell short-term health plans with skimpy benefits or higher premiums for people with chronic illnesses.Ms. Pelosi said the legislation would “strengthen protections for pre-existing conditions, reverse the G.O.P.’s health care sabotage and lower Americans’ health costs.”The legislative package, put together by Ms. Pelosi and several House committee chairmen, builds on the health law that the speaker was instrumental in passing — and that was signed by President Barack Obama almost exactly nine years ago. And it seems to answer a question facing Democrats since they took control of the House: How would they balance the expansive demands of their most liberal members with the needs of more pragmatic Democrats elected in seats that were held by Republicans?Ms. Pelosi, the committee chairmen and many other House Democrats see the new legislative package as a more efficient way of achieving universal coverage, a goal shared by champions of “Medicare for all,” led by Representatives Pramila Jayapal of Washington and Debbie Dingell of Michigan.Democrats said they would probably try to pass the legislative package piece by piece, with the first votes on the House floor expected in May. Some elements could win support from Republican House members and from the Republican-controlled Senate.With their new proposal, House Democratic leaders hope to finesse the disagreements within their caucus and to focus public attention instead on the gulf that separates Democrats of all stripes from President Trump on health care.In his latest budget request, Mr. Trump urged Congress again to repeal the expansion of Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act, which has provided coverage to at least 12 million people newly eligible for the program. Mr. Trump attacked Senator John McCain last week, seven months after his death, for casting a decisive vote against repeal of the 2010 health law.And in the economic report of the president, the White House boasted last week about how Mr. Trump had allowed small businesses and individual consumers to buy insurance plans that skirt many requirements of the Affordable Care Act, offering lower costs but fewer benefits.Under a rule issued in August, Mr. Trump greatly expanded the market for sales of short-term insurance plans that do not have to cover prescription drugs, maternity care, drug abuse treatment or pre-existing conditions.The House Democrats’ bill would turn back the president’s action by stipulating that short-term plans are included in the definition of “individual health insurance coverage” under the Affordable Care Act and therefore must comply with coverage requirements of the health law.“These junk plans discriminate against people with pre-existing conditions,” said Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey and an architect of the new legislation. “They deny access to basic benefits. They set arbitrary dollar limits for health care services, leading to huge surprise bills for consumers.”“We passed the Affordable Care Act to rein in exactly these types of abuses,” said Mr. Pallone, who is investigating the short-term plan as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee.The Affordable Care Act provides two main types of financial assistance to people of modest means buying private insurance: tax credits to help them pay premiums, and cost-sharing reductions to lower their deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs.The House Democrats’ bill would revise the law to provide more of both types of assistance.In addition, the bill would make subsidies available to some working families who are now ineligible. The law, as interpreted by the Internal Revenue Service, bars subsidies to workers who have access to affordable employer-sponsored coverage for themselves — even if the cost of coverage for the entire family is unaffordable. The House Democrats’ bill would eliminate this quirk in the law, sometimes called the family glitch.The bill would also provide money to publicize the insurance options and subsidies available under the Affordable Care Act and to help people enroll. Mr. Trump has cut the budget for such efforts by more than 80 percent, saying the funds were no longer needed because people were now well aware of the law.House Democrats would also block guidance issued by the Trump administration under which states can get waivers allowing them to use federal funds to subsidize insurance that does not comply with coverage requirements in the Affordable Care Act.The Democrats’ package includes several measures proposed by freshmen. One, by Representative Angie Craig, Democrat of Minnesota, seeks to lower premiums by setting up reinsurance programs, using a combination of federal and state funds to help pay the largest claims. Minnesota and several other states have established such programs and are pleased with the results.The package will also include a bipartisan bill offered by Representative Andy Kim, a freshman Democrat from New Jersey, that would provide federal money to states that want to set up their own insurance marketplaces but have yet to do so.“With skyrocketing premiums in the federal marketplace, state-based exchanges have proven to be more effective at increasing the rate of coverage and lowering costs,” said Representative Brian Fitzpatrick, Republican of Pennsylvania, who helped write this proposal with Mr. Kim.AdvertisementSupported byIn Her wordsWe asked readers which health topics they felt needed to be discussed openly, and got answers from an obstetrician-gynecologist. By Maya SalamWelcome to In Her Words, a twice-weekly column where women rule the headlines. Sign up here to get it delivered as a newsletter to your inbox. Let me know what you think at dearmaya@nytimes.com.“If someone speaks to you about your body with anything but kindness and concern, it is he who has a problem.”— Dr. Jen Gunter, an obstetrician-gynecologist Premenstrual dysphoria. Pelvic floor disorders. Endometriosis.These can be serious health conditions for women, yet many of us are reluctant to discuss them, even with our doctors. In fact, the bulk of my knowledge on these and many other issues that affect women’s reproductive health have been passed along to me through word of mouth like some kind of lore.How extensively women are uninformed, to the point that some struggle to articulate possible symptoms, hit home with me recently, after I wrote a column on menopause. (Specifically, it was about how women who were looking to find any information or camaraderie beyond the clinical were generally out of luck. You can read that article here.) As part of the column, I asked readers if there were any other health issues we needed to start talking about more openly — and I received an onslaught of emails. Did you know, for example, that about 50 percent of women will develop some form of pelvic organ prolapse in their lifetimes? More on that below.Here are five conditions, which affect millions of women, explained by Dr. Jen Gunter, an obstetrician-gynecologist in the San Francisco Bay-area who writes The Cycle, a Times column on women’s reproductive health.[Read more from Jen Gunter: “Your Vagina Is Terrific and Everyone Else’s Opinions Still Are Not”]Premenstrual Dysphoric DisorderWhat is it? It’s a severe form of PMS, but PMDD generally includes severe depression, irritability and tension. Like PMS, it starts a week or two before your period, and ends abruptly when your period ends.What to know: For about two weeks of the month, PMDD should be gone. Keep a symptom diary to gauge how long you're experiencing these symptoms and, as always, consult your doctor.EndometriosisWhat is it? It is when tissue that normally lines the uterus grows outside of the uterus, in the pelvic cavity. While this tissue doesn’t shed blood as it would inside the uterus, it does undergo inflammatory changes that it would during one’s period.What to know: It affects 6 to 10 percent of women. For some, it can cause infertility. For some, a few specks of the disease can cause severe pain. For other women, it takes a massive amount of disease to cause pain. And other women have no symptoms at all. Treatments include hormones or excision surgery.[Sign up here to get this column, In Her Words, delivered as a newsletter to your inbox.]Pelvic floor disordersWhat is it? Pelvic floor disorders primarily fall into two categories: the floor being too weak or too tense. (The floor consists of a group of muscles located at the base of the pelvis.) Either condition can result in symptoms that are hard to describe and therefore hard to diagnose, such as incontinence or pelvic organ prolapse, as well as pain, particularly during sex.What to know: A common feeling with a weak pelvic floor is that there’s something stuck in the vagina. Childbirth can exacerbate or cause a weak floor, since tissue that stretches is more vulnerable to age and injury. There is also a big genetic component, and smoking can weaken the floor.A tense floor is more complex, in that women can have it from birth or develop it at an early age. A floor can also tighten or spasm after sexual trauma or an event that caused pain, including a yeast infection. Pelvic organ prolapseWhat is it? It’s the sagging of one’s cervix and vaginal wall toward the vaginal opening.What to know: It occurs normally with age since pelvic tissue, stretchy by nature, is more vulnerable to gravity and aging. Fifty percent of women will develop some form of it over time, and most women don’t get symptoms until it has progressed.The most common symptom is the feeling that something is falling out. But it’s important to note that a pelvic floor spasm, which in many ways is an opposite condition, can cause the same sensation. IncontinenceWhat is it? There are two main types: stress incontinence, when urine leaks when pressure is exerting on the bladder by coughing, sneezing, laughing, exercising or lifting something. And there’s overactive bladder, or having to urinate even though there’s only a small amount of liquid in the bladder. It’s possible to have both conditions at the same time.What to know: A lot of women are not screened for incontinence, and ignoring it can lead to a lot of issues. If it gets severe, it can lead to social isolation. There are effective treatments, including medication, physical therapy or bladder retraining. It can also be controlled with an incontinence ring called a pessary. Injecting Botox into the bladder, a treatment for overactive bladder, is extremely effective by preventing muscles in the bladder from spasming from low volume of urine.______6 monthsThat’s the length of state paid parental leave California’s new governor, Gavin Newsom, is expected to propose this week. It would be the most generous state policy in the nation.______“These young women don’t want to suffer anymore.” A quiet revolution is occurring in West Africa, where women are asserting more control over their marriages. [The New York Times]“There’s a real tension.” As the 2020 primary competition gets underway with Elizabeth Warren’s entry, some Democrats puzzle over whether a woman could beat President Trump. [The New York Times]“They’re feeling more believed.” Reported rapes in New York City have increased for 16 consecutive months, a pattern the mayor said was in part due to #MeToo encouraging victims to speak up. [The New York Times]“Transformation should be accompanied by hope.” Cyntoia Brown, who as a teenage sex trafficking victim killed a man who had hired her as a prostitute, has been granted clemency. [The New York Times]“I don’t want to show my belly. I don’t want to show my scar.” Is it selfish to be uncomfortable with your appearance when you have just given birth to a healthy baby? [New York Times Opinion]“Age is no barrier to anything, really.” A 92-year-old Australian racewalking phenomenon has some lessons for the rest of us about aging well. [New York Times Opinion]______“Fifty-five binocular-burdened bird lovers — 85 percent of them women,” began a Times article in 1958 about bird watchers in Central Park. The energetic group was led by Farida A. Wiley, a bird enthusiast who was beginning her 20th season of tours. She led bird-and-nature walks twice a week, her guests including both experts and the newly initiated. “People think bird watching is sort of funny,” one of the women said, “I used to think so myself. But now I feel we’re more like people who’ve stopped smoking — superior.”AdvertisementSupported byPersonal HealthHave you considered the effects of what you eat on the planet, and made changes that will protect not only the Earth but also your health and the well-being of generations to come?By Jane E. BrodyI suspect most of you already do many things to help preserve the viability of the planet we all call home. Perhaps you recycle glass, plastic and paper and compost organic waste; shop with reusable bags; rely heavily on public transportation or bicycles or, failing that, at least drive fuel-efficient cars.But have you given serious thought to the planetary effects of what you eat and made changes that will protect not only terra firma and surrounding waters but also your health and the well-being of generations to come?In January, The New York Times described a comprehensive new report from the EAT-Lancet Commission on Food, Planet and Health. It was compiled by 37 scientists and other experts from 16 countries, with the aim of establishing a global food economy that could combat chronic diseases in wealthy nations like ours and provide better nutrition for poor ones, all without destroying the planet. The scientists’ goal was to outline a healthy sustainable diet that could feed the nearly 10 billion people expected to inhabit the world by 2050.For more than a century, most Americans have been eating far too high on the hog for the sake of their own health and the health of the planet. In 1900, two-thirds of our protein came not from animals but from plant foods. By 1985, that statistic was reversed, with more than two-thirds of our protein coming from animals, primarily beef cattle. They consume up to eight pounds of grain to produce one pound of meat and release tons of greenhouse gases in the process while their saturated fat and calories contribute heavily to our high rates of chronic diseases.As Dr. Walter C. Willett, professor of epidemiology and nutrition at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and a contributor to the Lancet report told Nutrition Action Healthletter, “We simply cannot eat the amounts of beef that we’re now consuming and still have a future for our grandchildren.”In an editorial, The Lancet wrote: “Intensive meat production is on an unstoppable trajectory comprising the single greatest contributor to climate change. Humanity’s dominant diets are not good for us, and they are not good for the planet.” The Lancet report does not insist that everyone become a vegetarian or vegan, but does set as a goal that people in wealthy countries limit consumption of red meat — beef and lamb in particular — to one 3-ounce serving a week, or one 6-ounce serving every two weeks. You can be somewhat more generous with pork, poultry and fish, which are better for your health and less damaging to the earth. The grain-to-meat ratio for poultry and hogs is only about 2.5 to 1, and the fat in fish is mostly unsaturated and high in omega-3 fatty acids.But you would do best for your health and the planet by gradually adopting a diet that derives most of its protein from plants — including legumes and nuts — with farmed seafood as your primary animal food along with moderate amounts of poultry and eggs. The fact is, we don’t need nearly as much protein as most Americans now consume. Studies in both animals and people have shown that high-protein diets limit longevity.Chickpeas and lentils account for a large percentage of the protein in my current diet, which has gradually become heavily plant-based. A favorite recipe starts with 2 cups of cubed butternut squash and 1 cup of coarsely chopped onion tossed with 1 tablespoon of olive oil, roasted on a sheet pan at 450 degrees for 20 minutes. Combine this with a 15-ounce can of drained chickpeas tossed with 2 teaspoons of curry powder, ¼ teaspoon coarse salt and 1 tablespoon olive oil that has been roasted separately on a sheet pan for 15 minutes. Yum! For more ideas, check out Menus of Change 2018 conference recipes.I often have what some may consider an unusual breakfast — soup laden with baby spinach and/or kale and roasted baby carrots, and a salad supper with salmon, tuna, low-fat chicken sausage, beans or chickpeas for protein. An alternate breakfast consists of slices of banana topped with peanut butter. Hummus on whole-wheat bread or crackers with grape tomatoes is a favorite lunch or snack.Another critically important change is in our consumption of carbohydrates, nearly half of which come in the form of nutrition-deficient unhealthy carbs: mostly refined starches like white bread and white rice, added sugars and potatoes, all of which contribute to the rampant incidence of obesity and Type 2 diabetes in this country. Nearly all my carbohydrates come from beans, whole-grain breads and milk, and I’m gradually decreasing consumption of my favorite treat: low-fat ice cream.As Dr. Willett pointed out, “Switching from refined starches to whole grains doesn’t make a big difference to the environment, but it does for your health.”My biggest failing vis-à-vis the EAT-Lancet dietary advice is the amount of dairy products — primarily nonfat, lactose-free milk and nonfat yogurt — I consume. Dr. Willett suggests only one serving a day while I usually consume three, making dairy a large portion of my protein and calcium intake.Suggestions about dietary fats mimic those you’ve been hearing for years: stick with unsaturated vegetable oils like olive, canola, soybean and corn oils, but steer clear of palm oil, which is high in saturated fats and its production is responsible for massive destruction of tropical rain forests needed to protect both the earth’s climate and diversity of wildlife.Coconut oil is currently enjoying a moment in dietary fame; even though it is a highly saturated fat, the particular type of fat in coconut oil gives a greater-than-usual boost to blood levels of HDL cholesterol, which is considered heart-protective. Dr. Willett suggests limiting it to occasional use, perhaps for Thai cooking or (do we dare?) making a pie crust or other baked goods that call for a solid fat.The EAT-Lancet Commission emphasized that its advice to eat more plant-based foods and fewer foods from animals is “not a question of all or nothing, but rather small changes for a large and positive impact.” It pointed out that “foods sourced from animals, especially red meat, have relatively high environmental footprints per serving compared to other food groups,” which Dr. Willett called “unsustainable.”AdvertisementSupported byThe state’s politicians have rejected the will of the voters and taken coverage from 60,000 Utahns.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardt’s newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.In November, the people of Utah voted to provide health insurance for about 150,000 state residents who lacked it. Last week, Utah’s legislators overruled their own constituents and took away insurance from about 60,000 of those 150,000 people.The legislators claimed they were trying to save money, but that’s not a credible rationale: The federal government would have covered the bulk of the cost. The true reason — which the legislators weren’t willing to admit publicly — was a philosophical objection to government-provided health insurance.Utah’s turnabout is the latest worrisome example of politicians rejecting the will of voters.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]The offending politicians have been mostly Republican, as they are in Utah. “You see a rising, disturbing trend here of equivocation, if not worse, in the commitment to democratic norms on the part of a growing number of Republicans,” Larry Diamond, a Stanford University democracy expert, told my colleague Ian Prasad Philbrick. “Is this what the Republican Party wants to be? The anti-democracy party?”There has also been one major example of Democratic officials deciding they don’t care what their constituents want: Last year, the city council in the District of Columbia reversed an increase in the minimum wage for tipped workers, even though the ballot initiative approving it had passed with 55 percent of the vote.City Lab’s Kriston Capps and Sarah Holder have put together a list of state legislatures that have overruled their own voters, including in Idaho, Maine and Michigan. In Missouri, some legislators have pushed to subvert a ballot initiative that would reduce gerrymandering. And in Utah, the legislature has also partly overturned a new law on medical marijuana.I find that last example especially helpful in thinking through my own view about this trend. I would vote against marijuana legalization, because I think it promotes drug use that damages health. But if my state voted to legalize marijuana in a referendum, I would still be unhappy if the legislature then reversed the result.A final point: I understand why some political scientists dislike government by ballot initiative. Direct democracy can sometimes create problematic laws. So if a state legislature wanted to reduce the ability of voters to make laws by referendum, I could see arguments in favor of doing so. But that’s very different from undoing the result of a referendum that has already passed.Sit, Zion, sit.The most exciting player in college basketball — Duke’s Zion Williamson — suffered a knee injury on Wednesday night, which raised a fascinating question, as Marc Tracy of The Times points out: Should Williamson sit out the rest of the college season, to avoid risk of further injury before he likely turns pro this summer?“The math behind the argument against Williamson’s returning is simple,” Tracy writes. “Per N.C.A.A. rules, Duke is not compensating Williamson, an 18-year-old freshman, beyond a scholarship and the related costs of studying at, and playing for, the university.”Duke is making bundles of money off Williamson and his teammates. So are ESPN, CBS and Nike, among others. But the players themselves get only scraps, until they turn pro.“To continue to risk his future in an unjust system that doesn’t allow him to be compensated just doesn’t make sense,” Ramogi Huma, an advocate for players’ rights, told Tracy.I agree. Until college athletics has a fairer economic system, players should err on the side of extreme caution. Some top college football players have already begun skipping year-end bowl games, for this reason. Whatever Williamson does, I suspect we’ll see more athletes make similar decisions in coming years.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.AdvertisementSupported byThe G.O.P. needs to finally figure out, or at least start figuring out, exactly what it stands for on health care policy.By Peter SudermanMr. Suderman is features editor at Reason.Judging by exit polls, the single most effective midterm issue for Democrats was health care — in particular, the argument, made by Democratic candidates across the country, that Republicans were out to eliminate the Affordable Care Act’s regulations governing pre-existing conditions.So when a Texas judge ruled in December that the entirety of the health law was unconstitutional, he ensured that this issue, and this argument, would remain front and center heading into the 2020 election. Legally speaking, the ruling is weak, and the case may be tossed in the appeals process. But if it travels all the way to the Supreme Court, it would effectively guarantee that health care remains politically potent throughout the presidential campaign. You can expect the Democrats’ cast-of-thousands presidential field to all swear to protect Obamacare’s pre-existing conditions rules — and President Trump to demonstrate his usual command of the finer points of health care policy in response.The ruling thus represents a challenge for Republicans — but also an opportunity. At least in theory, it could force the party to finally figure out, or at least start figuring out, exactly what it stands for when it comes to health care policy.The empty mantra of “repeal and replace” — which was all but buried by the midterms — was never a stand-in for an actual shared vision for the governance of health care in the United States. At the moment, the party seems confused about what, exactly, American health care policy should look like.That confusion extends beyond Obamacare to Medicare (which President Trump has ruled off limits) and Medicaid (which the repeal bills tried and failed to restructure), as well as to the tax deduction for employer-sponsored insurance around which health care policy has contorted for so many decades.It’s not that there’s a shortage of ideas: Conservative think tanks have health policy white papers to spare, and have for years. All the way back in 2012, for example, you could find the right-of-center health policy scholars James Capretta and Robert E. Moffit outlining principles for an Obamacare replacement in the journal National Affairs. Their plan called for limiting the tax break employers get for offering health coverage, converting existing public coverage programs to premium support (essentially a subsidy) while promoting competition among private plans, protecting people who maintain continuous coverage from spikes in premiums, and allowing states more flexibility to opt in and out of national health care initiatives.The Cato Institute’s Michael Cannon has long called for the creation of large Health Savings Accounts that would significantly increase the amount of money individuals could put into tax-free accounts for medical expenses, including health insurance, potentially giving millions of people an optional exit from employer-sponsored insurance.What connects these ideas is that they are not merely bullet-pointed lists of policy tweaks; they are frameworks for thinking more broadly about what federal health policy can, and perhaps should, be.That sort of thinking — about both general principles and the specific policy components necessary to make them a reality — is exactly what the Republican Party lacks, and what it desperately needs.It’s true that some Republican lawmakers have cobbled together proposals of varying degrees of specificity over the year: During his 2016 campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, Senator Marco Rubio of Florida sketched out a mostly forgotten health care plan that would have set up a broad-based system of refundable tax credits intended to subsidize the purchase of insurance in hopes of helping people buy coverage. And during the 2017 Obamacare repeal effort, Senators Lindsey Graham and Bill Cassidy offered a plan to give states far more flexibility, eliminating many of Obamacare's provisions at the national level while essentially turning the program into a block grant to the states.But these efforts have tended to be cursory and short-lived, with tiny or nonexistent constituencies. Few conservative lawmakers talk about them today, and it’s unclear whether many Republicans in Congress today even grasp the basics.Which is why, for all these ideas, if you ask Republican politicians what they stand for when it comes to health policy, you are likely to hear slogans like “patient centered” and “preserving the doctor-patient relationship” and possibly something about how Democrats want to “socialize Medicare” — as if the nation’s largest government health program is not already an essentially socialist enterprise.So it’s possible to imagine that at least some in the party will try to resolve, or at least start acknowledging, some of these questions. More likely, given the state of the G.O.P. under Trump, who is no one’s idea of a wonk, is that Republicans will simply decline to pursue the issue with any force, and the shabbiness of the party’s current non-position will become even more glaring. Indeed, just this month, Mr. Trump continued to predict Obamacare’s demise, saying he believed that “it’s going to be terminated,” possibly as a result of the Texas case, and that in the aftermath, “a deal will be made for good health care in this country.” What sort of deal? I suspect that even (perhaps especially) the president doesn’t know.That sort of glibness, in turn, is likely to give already-ascendant Democratic ideas a boost. The party’s enthusiasm for Medicare for All has flourished recently in part because it exists in a vacuum, with little if any substantive competition from the right. There are serious practical and political impediments to making a transition to single payer, from the enormous increase in federal spending and the tax increases it would almost certainly entail to the disruption that would be caused by the elimination of current private health insurance coverage for millions of Americans.Yet by failing to make even a halfhearted case for an alternative, Republicans are helping to clear the path for their opponents. When the options presented are single-payer or “I don’t know,” it’s not surprising that many Americans would gravitate toward the former.In the meantime, the Texas case will ensure that the Republicans’ waffling and uncertainty on policy basics, like legal requirements regarding pre-existing conditions, remain in the spotlight. The red state attorneys general who brought the case may have imagined it was a clever way to highlight Obamacare’s flaws, but instead it shined a spotlight on their own.Peter Suderman is features editor at Reason.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders react to David Brooks’s argument that the transition to “Medicare for all” would be too disruptive for Americans.To the Editor:Re “The Impossible ‘Medicare for All’” (column, March 5):David Brooks suggests that the transition to single-payer health insurance would be too disruptive for America to tolerate. Doctors like their income, insurance workers like their jobs and (most) Americans like their insurance, after all. I’m not sure, however, why disruption is often considered permissible and progressive when done by innovators for profit, and intrusive and feckless when done by governments to save lives.As a physician working in the Canadian system, I can’t pretend that universal insurance is without its flaws. It’s true that the implementation of our version of “Medicare for all” took decades and involved plenty of disarray, including doctors’ strikes. We have fraud and waste, just as you do — but we also have healthier people for a fraction of the cost. Implement universal Medicare already, if only to stop the moralizing from north of the border.Amy FraserOttawaTo the Editor:Here are two simple first steps toward universal health care coverage in the United States:1) Allow Medicare to open its doors to all (or even a portion) of those below the age of 65 (the so-called public option), competing head on with private insurers.2) Eliminate the tax exemption for employer-paid insurance premiums.My guess is that consumers will rethink their fixation with such employer plans, and the cost of the added Medicare rolls will be at least partly defrayed by the addition of an estimated $250 billion of annual tax revenues.Robert ElliottBoca Grande, Fla.To the Editor:David Brooks compiles a logical litany of the many likely problems with Medicare for all. However, those of us caught up in the bureaucratic, inconsistent and increasingly costly health insurance nightmare can’t help but be intrigued by the idealistic simplicity of the concept. Anything must be better than what we consistently go through.I don’t know who these Americans are who like what they have — I don’t hear that. I recently moved to a new city and now have to deal with a local insurance empire, whose motto seems to be “if it ain’t in our business plan, we won’t do it.” It has denied coverage for a cholesterol medication I was taking that had significantly reduced my cholesterol. How long will it take with a new physician, new blood work and possibly new specialists before I get back on it? Is that good health care? I think we are not seeing the forest for the trees.Marshall CohenPittsburghTo the Editor:How depressing to read David Brooks churning out all the usual tropes about why the United States can’t possibly have universal health care like every other developed nation.He cites an analysis from the Mercatus Center, which relies heavily on financial support from the Koch brothers. He should look instead at the analysis by the Political Economy Research Institute at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. I strongly urge everyone — especially David Brooks — to read the institute’s analysis, which concludes that universal health care is eminently achievable and would result in lower and sustainable long-term costs. Michael FreestonGoleta, Calif.To the Editor:In the near future Medicare for all will join the heap of other impossible dreams that came true: women’s suffrage, Social Security, Medicare, integration and gay marriage.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — Attacking “the secretive nature of pricing in the health care market,” the Trump administration said this week that it wanted to require public disclosure of the rates that doctors and hospitals negotiate with health insurance companies.“Patients have a right to price information” before they receive care, the administration said.Disclosure of the wildly different prices paid by insurers for the same services in the same market would probably incite competition and “drive down health care prices,” the administration said in soliciting comment on its idea.The concept, set forth Monday in the Federal Register and reported by The Wall Street Journal, is not a formal proposal, but rather a first step toward a possible proposal, clearly signaling the direction in which President Trump wants to go.Price transparency has been a hallmark of health policy under Mr. Trump. In a country that spends more than $3.5 trillion a year on health care, administration officials say, it is absurd that consumers cannot shop for medical goods and services as they shop for airline tickets and electronic gear.“There is no more powerful force than an informed consumer,” Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, has often said, exhorting health care providers and insurers to “become more transparent about their pricing.”It was not immediately clear whether the price disclosures contemplated by the White House would directly benefit consumers shopping for a knee replacement operation or the delivery of a baby at a hospital.“Price transparency is desirable,” Robert Weissman, the president of Public Citizen, a consumer group, said on Friday. But, he said, the disclosure requirement described by the Trump administration “won’t make any difference in the experience of individual patients or for the health care system over all.”What consumers want to know is what they will have to pay, and that is not the same as the reimbursement rates negotiated by doctors, hospitals and insurers, Mr. Weissman said.In a similar vein, the administration has proposed requiring pharmaceutical companies to disclose the list prices of prescription drugs they advertise on television, even though consumers often pay less. And the administration has required hospitals to post the list prices for all of their services. Consumers say the data, posted online in spreadsheets for thousands of procedures, is often incomprehensible — a hodgepodge of numbers and technical medical terms.In its latest proposal, the administration asked if health care providers could be required to disclose the “negotiated rates” for all of the insurance plans with which they do business.Thomas P. Nickels, an executive vice president of the American Hospital Association, said this was “a radical idea, requiring the disclosure of privately negotiated rates between two parties in a contract.”Moreover, Mr. Nickels said, it would be impractical because a hospital may have contracts with a dozen insurers, and each insurer may have four or five different health plans with different terms.The new initiative to require disclosure of price information came in an unusual way, slipped into the preamble to a proposed rule promoting the exchange of information stored in electronic health records. In 2009, Congress provided money to foster the adoption of electronic records, but health care providers cannot always communicate with one another when they use technology made by different vendors.Economists say health care markets are opaque and frustrate consumers who want to shop for the best value.Martin Gaynor, a professor of economics and health policy at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said it was possible shining sunlight on the rates paid to doctors and hospitals could put pressure on the industry to lower prices. But in some places, hospitals have market power and can raise prices without losing customers to competitors.“If you are the only hospital in town, any insurer will have to have you in its network,” Mr. Gaynor said. “The fact that prices are public will not change that.”The Trump administration said that its plan could reduce huge, inexplicable differences in prices.In Minnesota, it said, insurers pay as much as $47,000 and as little as $6,200 for a total knee replacement operation. For a total hip replacement, payments have ranged from $6,700 to $44,000.Reimbursement for a typical vaginal delivery of a baby ranged from $2,900 to $12,300 in one study of Minnesota markets, while C-section deliveries ranged from $4,700 to $22,800.The American Medical Association and America’s Health Insurance Plans, a lobby for insurers, said they needed more information about the administration’s plan before they could formulate a response.A research report by securities analysts at Jefferies L.L.C. said the plan faced legal hurdles. “Contract details between managed care organizations and health care providers are covered by confidentiality clauses, so forcing hospitals to post negotiated prices will require hard-to-achieve legislative action,” they wrote.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — President Donald Trump told House Republicans on Tuesday that they need to embrace health care reform and make it the first thing they vote on following the 2020 election.Speaking at an annual fundraiser for the National Republican Congressional Committee, Trump told GOP lawmakers and supporters they have the advantage on a variety of issues, but conceded that Democrats have the advantage on health care."We have to take that away from them," Trump said."Republicans should not run away from health care," he added. "You can't do it. You're going to get clobbered."He told the GOP House members: "You are the minority, I hate to say. That's not going to last long." Democrats hold a 235-197 majority in the House with three vacancies.The Democrats found success in 2018 by attracting support from women, minorities and college-educated voters, particularly in suburban districts. Many wanted a check on the president. That success filtered down to state and local races, with Democrats flipping hundreds of seats in state legislatures and picking up seven governorships.To turn that momentum, Trump is focusing on the economy and casting Democrats as outside the mainstream in their support for policies such as "Medicare for all" and the "Green New Deal" to combat climate change."If they beat me with the Green New Deal, I deserve to lose," he said.The buzzword for Republicans is "socialism," and Trump turned to it on several occasions Tuesday night.AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.After briefly trying to revive the push to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, President Trump agreed on Monday to put aside the idea until after the 2020 elections. Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, had told Trump firmly that Congress would not be willing to take up any such legislation before then.Stephen Colbert crowed about the news, reminding viewers that Republicans have repeatedly been unable to come up with a successful plan to replace the health care bill that they spent years criticizing under President Barack Obama.“Remember ‘repeal and replace’? ‘We’re going to repeal and replace’? Well, after nine years, they still haven’t gotten around to the ‘replace’ part. They have no plan. In fact, not only do they not have a plan, there is no plan to make a plan. So they may not have a plan to make a plan, but they are working hard on a plan for you to never find out that they will never have had a plan.” — STEPHEN COLBERT, referring to an article in The Washington PostAddressing reporters on Tuesday, Trump said: “When the plan comes out, which we’ll be showing you at the appropriate time, it’s much better than Obamacare.” Colbert mimicked Trump, poking fun at him for boasting of a plan that seemed not to exist.“Trust me, desperately sick people, just keep breathing. Tell your diabetes to sit tight in your pancreases until some later time. And I promise, you or your next of kin will love it.” — STEPHEN COLBERT, impersonating TrumpTrump attempted to move on gracefully from the health care discussion, insisting on Twitter that his Republican colleagues will eventually prevail on the issue. But there was a glaring problem with one of his tweets, as Jimmy Fallon pointed out.“He wrote, ‘The Republican Party will be known as the Party of great HealtCare.’ He spelled it ‘HealtCare,’ yeah. Trump’s cut so much from health care that now he’s just taking letters.” — JIMMY FALLON“He misspelled health care. Also, it turns out this whole time he’s actually wanted to build a whale.” — SETH MEYERSFallon also took issue with another tweet Trump sent early Tuesday morning as part of a larger barrage.“He wrote, ‘The best thing that ever happened to Puerto Rico is President Donald J. Trump.’ Puerto Rico was like, ‘Sir, April Fools’ Day was yesterday.’” — JIMMY FALLON“Researchers from NASA and the European Space Agency are seeking female applicants for a study on weightlessness that will pay women $19,000 to lie in bed for 60 days. Said Trump, ‘Wow, I paid like seven times that for one day.’” — SETH MEYERS, showing a picture of Trump with Stormy Daniels“A new report just confirmed that the Curiosity Rover detected methane on Mars. Although, you know what they say: ‘He who detected it ejected it.’” — JIMMY FALLON“Scientists have discovered that dubstep music has been found to protect against mosquito bites by delaying host attack, reducing blood feeding and disrupting mating. But it’s specifically music by Skrillex. Researchers also concluded that they’d rather just get malaria.” — STEPHEN COLBERTJimmy Fallon crowdsourced baby photos from his viewers, then turned them into memes.Two of Meyers’s writers, Amber Ruffin and Jenny Hagel, regularly step in to help him avoid offending his entire audience. (They do the dirty work for him.)Jimmy Fallon will get together with his old pal — and fellow Trump impersonator — Alec Baldwin on Wednesday’s “Tonight Show.”The comedian Hannah Gadsby’s last stand-up special, “Nanette,” was a smash hit. She has every reason to be worried about crafting a strong follow-up. But she isn’t. “I don’t care if this fails,” she said in an interview. “I’m going to take certain risks again.”Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — A new documentary explores the world of rural health care amid poverty and a persistent opioid crisis."The Providers," set to air on the PBS Independent Lens series this week, looks at the challenges three health care workers in rural New Mexico face as they provide services to aging patients and those struggling with addiction.The film shows how the health care providers from El Centro Family Health Center refuse to pass judgment on patients trying to cope with alcoholism, opioid use and unemployment in one the poorest regions in the nation.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — The Trump administration broadened its attack on the Affordable Care Act on Monday, telling a federal appeals court that it now believed the entire law should be invalidated.The administration had previously said that the law’s protections for people with pre-existing conditions should be struck down, but that the rest of the law, including the expansion of Medicaid, should survive.If the appeals court accepts the Trump administration’s new arguments, millions of people could lose health insurance, including those who gained coverage through the expansion of Medicaid and those who have private coverage subsidized by the federal government.“The Justice Department is no longer asking for partial invalidation of the Affordable Care Act, but says the whole law should be struck down,” Abbe R. Gluck, a law professor at Yale who has closely followed the litigation, said on Monday. “Not just some of the insurance provisions, but all of it, including the Medicaid expansion and hundreds of other reforms. That’s a total bombshell, which could have dire consequences for millions of people.”The new position is also certain to reignite a political furor over the Affordable Care Act, ensuring that it will figure even more prominently in the 2020 elections. Democrats have been saying that President Trump still wants to abolish the law, and they can now point to the Justice Department’s filing as evidence to support that contention.[What happens if Obamacare is struck down? Read more.]The Justice Department disclosed its new stance in a two-sentence letter to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, and will elaborate on its position in a brief to be filed later.In the letter, the Justice Department said the court should affirm a judgment issued in December by Judge Reed O’Connor of the Federal District Court in Fort Worth.Judge O’Connor, in a sweeping opinion, said that the individual mandate requiring people to have health insurance “can no longer be sustained as an exercise of Congress’s tax power” because Congress had eliminated the tax penalty for people who go without health insurance.Accordingly, Judge O’Connor said, “the individual mandate is unconstitutional” and the remaining provisions of the Affordable Care Act are also invalid.In its letter to the appeals court, the Justice Department said on Monday that it “is not urging that any portion of the district court’s judgment be reversed.” In other words, it agrees with Judge O’Connor’s ruling.In the nine years since it was signed by President Barack Obama, the Affordable Care Act has become embedded in the nation’s health care system. It changed the way Medicare pays doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. It has unleashed a tidal wave of innovation in the delivery of health care. The health insurance industry has invented a new business model selling coverage to anyone who applies, regardless of any pre-existing conditions.The law also includes dozens of provisions that are less well known and not related to the individual mandate. It requires nutrition labeling and calorie counts on menu items at chain restaurants. It requires certain employers to provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk. It improved prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries, and it created a new pathway for the approval of less expensive versions of biologic medicines made from living cells.Lawyers said invalidation of the entire law would raise numerous legal and practical questions. It is, they said, difficult to imagine what the health care world would look like without the Affordable Care Act.The Trump administration’s new position was harshly criticized by the insurance industry and by consumer advocates.The government’s position “puts coverage at risk for more than 100 million Americans,” said Matt Eyles, the president and chief executive of America’s Health Insurance Plans.Leslie Dach, the chairman of Protect Our Care, a consumer advocacy group, said: “In November, voters overwhelmingly rejected President Trump’s health care repeal and sabotage agenda. But he remains dead set on accomplishing through the courts what he and his allies in Congress could not do legislatively: fully repeal the law, devastate American health care and leave millions of Americans at risk.”The Trump administration’s new stance appears to put Republicans in Congress in an awkward position. They have repeatedly tried to repeal the health law. But in the last year, they said over and over that they wanted to protect coverage for people with pre-existing conditions, and those protections are among the law’s most popular provisions.The lawsuit challenging the Affordable Care Act, Texas v. United States, was filed last year by a group of Republican governors and state attorneys general. Officials from California and more than a dozen other states have intervened to defend the law.The Texas lawsuit “is as dangerous as it is reckless,” Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said on Monday as he filed a brief urging the appeals court to uphold the law.AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Alexander BurnsThe debate unfolded over a period of days, on multiple televised stages in different states. There were no direct clashes between the candidates, no traces of personal animus — but a debate it was, the first vivid disputation over policy in the 2020 Democratic presidential primary.The subject, perhaps predictably, was health care. At issue was just how drastically to transform the American system, and how comprehensive the role of government should be.In one camp were a pair of blunt-speaking Midwesterners, Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota and Sherrod Brown of Ohio — both beloved by many liberals, yet both dismissive of fellow Democrats’ promises to create a vast new apparatus of government-backed health care. They endorsed incremental policy changes, like lowering the age of eligibility for Medicare.“It could be a possibility in the future,” Ms. Klobuchar said of single-payer health care, in a CNN town hall on Monday night. “I’m just looking at something that will work now.”On the other side was the party’s most uncompromising economic populist, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a self-described democratic socialist who promised nothing short of a revolution in health care with his proposal for “Medicare for all.” He held up Canada and Western Europe as working models for the United States.“If our friends in Scandinavia can provide quality health care to all of their people as a right, for far less than we spend, you tell me why we can’t do it,” Mr. Sanders said in a CBS interview, broadcast on Tuesday morning after he declared his candidacy for president.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]The political and policy fault lines were familiar ones, but the scale and clarity of the disagreement was new to the 2020 presidential primary, an affair that has thus far unfolded as a contest of splashy campaign rollouts, forceful personalities and overlapping policy wish lists. While the party’s most prominent candidates have differed in their rhetoric and most distinctive legislative proposals — Senator Elizabeth Warren’s wealth tax, or Senator Kamala Harris’s middle-class tax cut — at this early stage they have declined to engage the submerged philosophical rifts between them.Yet the exchanges over health care hinted that those ideological divisions may not stay buried for long: As the Democratic primary field develops and grows, the party is headed for a fuller public conversation about the role of government and the scale of their own ambitions.There have been tentative skirmishes: Ms. Warren and Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire former New York City mayor, publicly diverged over the idea of a tax on the country’s largest fortunes. Even before Mr. Sanders entered the race, other candidates drew unsubtle lines separating themselves from his brand of politics: Ms. Warren has branded herself a proud capitalist, and Ms. Harris said emphatically on Monday, “I am not a democratic socialist.”But the debate over health care may be unique in its potency. It mirrors a larger struggle among Democrats over how daring their message ought to be, and whether promising to rapidly expand social-welfare programs is the best way to defeat President Trump. In the past, Democrats have tended to nominate relatively moderate candidates, with even nominees like former President Barack Obama espousing platforms far less radical than the one favored by Mr. Sanders.Polls show that Democratic ideas for expanding government health care are popular, but the key details of a single-payer system can make many voters uneasy.In the debate over single-payer, several prominent Democratic candidates and officials have endorsed some version of “Medicare for all,” a broad slogan that has been applied to a range of policies that would expand government-backed health care. In the purest conception, favored by Mr. Sanders, it involves the creation of a multitrillion dollar government health plan through which every American would obtain essential coverage. That approach, which is typical across most of the developed world, would guarantee universal coverage for all Americans and reduce health care costs for many, but it has long been seen as politically controversial because it would require so much public funding and would force many people who like their existing health insurance to change plans.Jared Bernstein, a liberal economist who served in the Obama administration, said the distinctions between Democratic candidates had less to do with where they want to take the country than with how — and how quickly — they aim to get there. Their core priorities were largely identical, Mr. Bernstein said.“The candidates who are trying to carve out more moderate positions are essentially saying, ‘I think we get from where we are to where we need to go through incremental steps.’ The others are saying, ‘No, we’re into giant steps,’” Mr. Bernstein said. On health care in particular, he said, “The real difference between the candidates on this is whether you believe we get where we need to go on health care through incremental change, or by leapfrogging to something much more universal than we have.”That Mr. Sanders would be a champion of giant steps is no surprise. His insurgent campaign in 2016 exploded the bounds of traditional debate in Democratic politics and thrust once-remote ideas — like European-style health care and free tuition at public colleges — to the center of debate on the left. He has shown every sign so far of approaching 2020 in a similar spirit, and describes other proposed policy solutions as inadequate half measures.In his announcement interview, Mr. Sanders offered scant acknowledgment of the practical and political obstacles to implementing his vision. He cast all impediments as the products of a corrupt political system that could be overcome through a mass mobilization of the popular will.[Read about Bernie Sanders’s entrance into the 2020 race, and where he stands on the issues.]“You cannot make those changes unless there is a movement of people who make the Congress and the president an offer they cannot refuse,” Mr. Sanders said.Invoking the watchword of his 2016 candidacy, Mr. Sanders said it was time to “complete that revolution” by enacting his health care and education policies. To him and his supporters, it is an article of faith that Democrats lost the 2016 election partly because Hillary Clinton failed to offer a vision of economic justice that might have captured some of the indignant energy of Mr. Trump’s campaign.While throngs of Democrats have endorsed “Medicare for all” as a campaign slogan, Mr. Sanders has been nearly alone among the presidential candidates in demanding an immediate-term, full-blown version of the idea. Most of his leading rivals, like Ms. Warren and Senator Cory Booker, have backed the concept as an eventual goal as they pursue more pragmatic alternatives in the near term. (Ms. Harris endorsed eliminating private health insurance in a CNN town hall, but has also stressed her support for more modest ways of expanding government-backed care.)The leading Democratic candidates have given similarly hedged answers on the policy program known as the Green New Deal, a sweeping agenda to eliminate carbon emissions and guarantee full employment. Ms. Klobuchar on Monday called the proposals “aspirational.”If Mr. Sanders has given a resounding “yes” on single-payer, and most Democrats have offered versions of “yes, but,” Mr. Brown and Ms. Klobuchar stand out for their willingness to say “no.”Both have long been skeptics of single-payer health care, viewing it as impractical and disruptive. They are both closely attuned to the sensibilities of the moderate Midwest, a region that delivered the presidency to Mr. Trump and that Democrats are determined to recapture in 2020.Mr. Brown, who has been visiting early primary states but has not decided whether to run for president, kicked off the long-distance debate over the weekend, arguing on CNN that pushing for single-payer would be a mistake.“I want to help people now, and helping people now is building on the Affordable Care Act,” said Mr. Brown, a liberal populist whose diagnosis of the country’s economic problems resembles Mr. Sanders’s in important ways.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester and Andy Mills, and edited by Lisa TobinDemocratic candidates are joining the 2020 presidential race with different answers to the same central question: What will it take to win against Donald Trump?michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Bernie Sanders enters a crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates. How those candidates, who agree on so many social issues, are fighting to distinguish themselves in order to beat President Trump. It’s Wednesday, February 20.archived recording (elizabeth warren)Good morning, Lawrence! [CHEERING] I stand here today to declare that I am a candidate for president of the United States of America.archived recording (kamala harris)I stand before you today to announce my candidacy for president of the United States.archived recording (amy klobuchar)To announce my candidacy for president of the United States.archived recording (kirsten gillibrand)I’m filing an exploratory committee for president of the United States tonight!archived recording (cory booker)I’m running for president because I want to address these issues.archived recording (bernie sanders)Hi, I’m Bernie Sanders. I’m running for president. And I’m asking you today to be part of an unprecedented grassroots campaign —michael barbaroAnd we are going to do this again. Alex Burns, what does Bernie Sanders’s announcement mean for the 2020 presidential race?alexander burnsWell, it really means that now we have a full spectrum of Democratic candidates running, from sort of quasi-Marxist to avowedly moderate. That might sound like we now have this messy, shapeless field, but in reality, they are all basically debating the same central question, which is: Who has what it takes to beat Donald Trump? All the candidates, all the voters from different wings of the party basically agree that that is the overarching theme of this primary. They just all have different answers to that basic question.michael barbaroAnd as these Democratic candidates debate visions for beating Trump, I have to imagine that is a calculation about moving left and embracing kind of the politics of identity or tacking to the right to go after Trump voters, moderates.alexander burnsWell, you’re sort of half-right there that there is a debate about whether the party needs to move to the left or to the center, but the fault lines are almost entirely about the economy. Then when it comes to matters of identity and different social justice issues, there is very, very little disagreement across the field. When you think about the issues that are now just consensus positions in the Democratic Party — support for gay marriage, support for abortion rights, support for very restrictive gun control laws — I don’t know that you would have had a field. We didn’t have a field 10 years ago, 15, 20 years ago, where there was basically no daylight on any of those issues — that the party is a liberal party on cultural matters, and the candidates themselves, obviously, have very different identities, but in terms of where they are on those issues, there’s not a great deal of daylight. When it comes to stuff like health care and taxation and financial regulation, that’s when you start to see the differences really open up. That right now is where the Democratic debate is going to focus.michael barbaroI guess I’m curious — why is there such a wide spectrum on economic issues where there isn’t when it comes to social issues?alexander burnsWell, this is going to get very weighty very fast. But I think you can look back over the last decade since the Great Recession and see just an enormous opening up of the range of economic debate in American politics — that in 1992 or 2000 you didn’t have candidates running for the Democratic nomination for president calling themselves democratic socialist, or calling for just a colossal rewriting of the American economy. Now you have most candidates not calling themselves a democratic socialist, but calling for really transformational change of some kind or another. I think you can find the roots to that in the recession. I think you can find the roots to that in Bernie Sanders in 2015. And finally, I think you can see the Trump presidency just as an enormously disruptive force in this space. I think Democrats, liberal Democrats, see how the president blew up the debate around economics on the Republican side, especially on matters like trade and just the nature of the global economy, and there’s no reason now for folks on the left not to do the same thing on their side.michael barbaroIt’s kind of their turn to be incredibly disruptive when it comes to economics.alexander burnsRight. And they don’t have on the right a mainstream, traditional Republican president who they worry will make them look outside the mainstream.michael barbaroRight.alexander burnsThat if you are campaigning against a President Jeb Bush or a President Marco Rubio who passed a very traditional, modest, middle-class tax cut and who says the right things about economic inequality and pursues sort of modest tinkering to Nafta, I think Democrats probably do feel a little bit more trepidation about campaigning on a really daring, disruptive, relatively far-left agenda. That’s not the mood of the Democratic Party right now.michael barbaroRight. Instead you have a candidate on the right, an almost assured nominee, who deliberately provokes trade wars and tears up almost every major economic agreement we have signed as a country in the last 25 years.alexander burnsRight. So the Democrats aren’t looking at Donald Trump and saying, we need to really make sure that we reassure the business community and make sure that we don’t make folks on the center right nervous, because the president does those things already. So I think from Democrats close to the middle to Democrats well to the left, there is just this universal feeling that they’ve got to go big on an economic vision in some way.michael barbaroSo let’s start off at the most disruptive end of the economic spectrum here.archived recording (bernie sanders)Hi. I’m Bernie Sanders. I’m running for president.michael barbaroI imagine that that is Bernie Sanders, right? Why does he believe that he is best positioned to beat President Trump?archived recording (bernie sanders)Our campaign is about taking on the powerful special interests that dominate our economic and political life.alexander burnsWell, the Sanders theory of the case in 2019 is very similar to what his theory was in 2015 and 2016, which is that if you’re running against a candidate and Donald Trump in a political party like the Republican Party that is defined in the eyes of many voters as a party of great wealth and a party that is aligned with powerful corporate interests, you run right at that great wealth and those powerful corporate interests. And —archived recording (bernie sanders)We are the wealthiest nation in the history of the world. We should not have a grotesque level of wealth inequality in which three billionaires now own more wealth than the bottom half of the country.alexander burnsPart of what has won him the passionate following he has is his directness in marshaling people’s sense of political alienation and economic dissatisfaction in a really class-oriented way.archived recording (bernie sanders)Our campaign is about creating a government and economy that works for the many, not just the few.alexander burnsHe talks about trying to bring together voters who are economically distressed across lines of geography and culture and race in a way that other candidates don’t necessarily.archived recording (bernie sanders)I am running for president because the time is long overdue for the United States to join every other major country on earth and guarantee health care to all people as a right, not a privilege, through a “Medicare for all” single-payer program.alexander burnsYou know, his theory is that if you talk about giving people government-guaranteed health care, that appeals as much to an African-American woman in Los Angeles as it does to a white coal miner in West Virginia. That theory has not really been tested the way Bernie Sanders would like to test it. There is very, very substantial evidence from the last few rounds of national elections that culture is such a dominant force in American elections that I think it does cast some doubt on whether that would work in a general election, because —archived recording (bernie sanders)Together, you and I and our 2016 campaign began the political revolution. Now it is time to complete that revolution and implement the vision that we fought for.alexander burnsYou know, he’s talking about revolution. That’s the word he uses, and he uses it for a reason.michael barbaroSo the question here is, can he win a race that’s all about class? And will that work? Can he make it all about the 1 percent versus the 99 percent and actually succeed?alexander burnsRight. And the question is, does the 99 percent see themselves as a coherent entity?michael barbaroRight.alexander burnsOr do other kinds of social and cultural divisions make the aspiration to a cross-racial national workers’ campaign just sort of a fantasy?michael barbaroRight. We’d probably know if there was a 99 percent club of voters that saw itself as one entity waiting to be tapped.alexander burnsAnytime a politician tells you that 80 percent of people agree strongly with their position on something as sensitive as health care or the bedrock nature of the American economy.michael barbaroThey’re estimating.alexander burnsThey’re estimating.michael barbaroSo who’s next on this Democratic spectrum, remembering that we’re going kind of left to less left?alexander burnsWell, a lot of these people are tricky to categorize ideologically. But I think the person you would have to put closest to Bernie Sanders but with some very, very significant philosophical and personal modifications is Elizabeth Warren.archived recording (elizabeth warren)The middle-class squeeze is real, and millions of families can barely breathe. It is not right. [CHEERING]alexander burnsShe’s a candidate who is running a populist campaign.archived recording (elizabeth warren)Hardworking people are up against a small group that holds far too much power, not just in our economy but also in our democracy.alexander burnsShe is targeting banks, insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies.archived recording (elizabeth warren)And when giant corporations and their leaders cheat their customers, stomp out their competitors and rob their workers, let’s prosecute them. [CHEERING]alexander burnsBut unlike Bernie Sanders, she’s very explicit about calling herself a capitalist.archived recording (elizabeth warren)We can’t afford just to tinker around the edges, a tax credit here, a regulation there. Our fight is for big structural change.alexander burnsThat is a huge tonal and substantive difference from Bernie Sanders. She’s not talking about blowing up and incinerating the entire system and rebuilding it from the ground up. She is talking about using all the levers of power in government to take control of a system that she argues is out of control.michael barbaroRight. So cleaning it up, not blowing it up.alexander burnsRight.archived recording (elizabeth warren)We need to change the rules to clean up Washington. End the corruption.michael barbaroSo in that sense she would be appealing to the Trump voters’ same desire to drain the swamp.alexander burnsIf there is a drain-the-swamp candidate in the Democratic primary, it is Elizabeth Warren. Corruption is the central theme of her campaign as much as anything else.archived recording (elizabeth warren)I have proposed the strongest and most comprehensive anti-corruption laws since Watergate.alexander burnsBut the basic political logic of a Warren campaign is not all that different from the logic of a Sanders campaign. It’s about harnessing alienation with the political system. It’s about telling people that, yeah, you’re right, the economy is rigged and I’m going to do something very, very drastic about it.archived recording (elizabeth warren)We need to take power in Washington away from the wealthy and well-connected and put it back in the hands of the people, where it belongs.alexander burnsHer campaign represents, again, not a Sanders-like rejection of what’s normal, but definitely a rejection of what’s normal.michael barbaroSo what is the risk of a Warren-like candidate, if, by your description, she’s kind of a Democratic Trump-like candidate in her attempts to sell herself as a fixer of a broken system?alexander burnsThere are a couple risks in a Warren candidacy. The biggest one is she is putting, essentially, all her chips on the idea that voters are alienated from the economy and that is going to be the consuming issue for them in this election. It’s a bet that people are not just a little bit dissatisfied with how things are working right now, that they are profoundly dissatisfied and that whatever other issues they may care about, it’s issues about the economy and the power of corporations that matter more than anything else.michael barbaroSo her focus may be too narrow.alexander burnsWell, we just don’t know what voters are going to care about most a year from now. And in some ways it’s a daring bet, in some ways it’s a very risky bet to think that these core issues that have been the issues that have defined your career are going to be the decisive issues first in the primary, then in the general election. It’s not that she only talks about these issues, but I was in Iowa with her for a day pretty recently, and the balance of themes related to corruption and corporate power versus all other themes in her stump speech — it’s just overwhelmingly lopsided.michael barbaroWho is in the next band over?alexander burnsSo if you think of Sanders and Warren, who are candidates really preoccupied with economic populism and whose basic campaign bargain is, let’s tax the wealthy and go after corporations in order to create new welfare benefits for other people, you then get into this next band of candidates, and they’re a little bit harder to characterize ideologically. Candidates like Kamala Harris and Kirsten Gillibrand, Cory Booker, these are candidates who are all campaigning as liberals and who have endorsed big liberal goals.archived recording (kamala harris)I am running to declare education is a fundamental right.archived recording (kirsten gillibrand)I believe that health care should be a right and not a privilege.archived recording (cory booker)People in America are losing faith that this nation will work for them.archived recording (kamala harris)And we will guarantee that right with universal pre-K and debt-free college.archived recording (kirsten gillibrand)I believe we should have better public schools, because it shouldn’t matter what block you grow up on.archived recording (cory booker)My record as a mayor, my record as a senator is fighting those interests that are trying to screw people. And when it comes to defending folks, I will be ferocious.alexander burnsBut they are much more cautious about the way they talk about enacting that change.archived recordingWhat is your solution to ensure that people have access to quality health care at an affordable price? And does that solution involve cutting insurance companies, as we know them, out of the equation?alexander burnsWe saw this very memorably with Kamala Harris in her first few days as a candidate when she, first, in a CNN event, endorsed getting rid of the private health care system entirely.archived recording (kamala harris)I believe the solution, and I actually feel very strongly about this, is that we need to have Medicare for all. That’s just the bottom line.alexander burnsThe Bernie Sanders-like position. And then —archived recordingSenator Harris is now backtracking a bit on her call to eliminate private health insurers. Her spokesman tells us she is open to more moderate plans that preserve the private health care industry.alexander burnsQuickly clarified that she favors any number of ways of getting to universal health care coverage, not necessarily the Bernie Sanders approach. Her signature economic proposal is a big tax cut.archived recording (kamala harris)We will deliver the largest working- and middle-class tax cut in a generation. [CHEERING]alexander burnsTargeted at the middle class, paid for by increasing taxes and changing the kinds of taxes that are applied to much wealthier people.archived recording (kamala harris)We’ll pay for it by reversing this administration’s giveaways to the top big corporations and the top 1 percent. [CHEERING]alexander burnsThat is a much more conventional way of thinking about how you gain credibility on the economy.archived recording (cory booker)Our planet is in peril and we need to be bold. It’s one of the reasons why I signed onto the resolution and co-sponsored the resolution for the Green New Deal.alexander burnsI think that once you get to Cory Booker, you’re even a couple clicks closer to the political center.archived recording (cory booker)And there’s a lot of people now that are going back on the Green New Deal. They’re like, oh, it’s impractical, oh, it’s too expensive, oh, it’s all of this. If we used to govern our dreams that way, we would have never gone to the moon. God, that’s impractical. You see that ball in the sky?alexander burnsHe endorses the Green New Deal as sort of an aspirational goal, but he doesn’t endorse the full program, wouldn’t expect to enact it as president.archived recording (cory booker)And my parents taught me reach for the moon, reach for the stars even if you come up short, at least you’re going to be hovering above the ground. You’ll be soaring, young man.alexander burnsHe is somebody who you start to hear speaking in more pragmatic terms about simply what he considers possible in a divided government.archived recording (cory booker)And when the planet has been in peril in the past, who came forward to save Earth from the scourge of Nazi and totalitarian regimes? We came forward.michael barbaroI imagine that the idea for this group of Democratic candidates is to appeal to every conceivable voter by seeming pragmatic and flexible, a bit malleable. But I imagine that the risk here is gaining a reputation for being inauthentic, maybe even phony.alexander burnsYeah. The risk is that you end up trying to be all things to all people and being nothing in particular to anybody. And this is a particularly pointed distinction on economic issues and issues related to inequality and corporate power — that if you’re a candidate who talks big on taking on health insurance companies, taking on banks, making sure that the 99 percent start catching up with the 1 percent, people might at some point expect you to propose policy ideas that would actually achieve that outcome. And there’s a great risk in being seen as a candidate who endorses a bunch of very grand liberal goals, and then there’s always a but.michael barbaroRight. I’m thinking, of course, of Hillary Clinton taking Wall Street money while calling for Wall Street reform.alexander burnsIf there’s one consistent theme we’ve seen in politics over the last few years in both parties, it’s the importance of personal and ideological authenticity. And that is something that Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren obviously have in spades. And once you start to get two candidates who are trying to bridge divides in the party, it just becomes more complicated. If you are Donald Trump, what you’re hoping for is a Democratic candidate who will either be so far left that they cannot appeal to the middle or a candidate who has tied themselves into an ideological pretzel and who you can just ridicule as inauthentic. I don’t think there’s anybody in the Democratic race at this point who has reached that pretzel status, but we will see, especially for these candidates who are trying to straddle the left and the center, who are trying to be both revolutionary and exciting and also non-threatening to voters who are more traditional voters, a long primary is going to test whether the core of who they are really fits that description.michael barbaroSo you’re kind of tracking pretzel status. So that leaves us with the actual moderates. And who are they so far?alexander burnsWell, right now —archived recording (amy klobuchar)For too long, leaders in Washington have sat on the sidelines while others tried to figure out what to do about the changing economy and its impact on our lives.alexander burnsThere’s really only one major candidate in the race who is positioning herself very directly as a moderate, and that’s Amy Klobuchar. We have seen her, more than any other candidate, willing to just say no to some of the really big liberal trophy ideas, like “Medicare for all,” like free college.archived recordingYes or no. Would you support free college for all?archived recording (amy klobuchar)No. I am not for free four-year college for all. No. Thank you.alexander burnsWe have talked about candidates who say yes, but. But she’s a candidate who just says no.archived recording (amy klobuchar)I wish — if I was a magic genie and could give that to everyone, and we could afford it, I would. I’m just trying to find a mix of incentives.alexander burnsAnd we’re going to see whether there is an appetite for that in the Democratic Party, somebody who says, I’m just going to level with you. I’m not going to do that because I don’t think it’s possible. Here are the things I am going to do.archived recording (amy klobuchar)Getting to universal health care and bringing down — bringing down the cost of prescription drugs.alexander burnsIt’s a bet that voters will reward candor and realism. Look, if you’re Amy Klobuchar, you’re taking a big risk on the idea that voters will accept less if they think that they can get it for sure as opposed to promising them more with some uncertainty about whether it’s achievable.archived recordingIt is time to organize, time to galvanize, time to take back our democracy. It’s time, America.alexander burnsA really significant portion of the Democratic Party self-identifies as moderate — not conservative, but they are suspicious of “Medicare for all.” They are suspicious of some of the really grand transformational promises that they hear from the more liberal candidates. And right now, if you split up the pie on the left between the candidates we’ve talked about, there is a big slice of pie left closer to the political center. And Amy Klobuchar is the only person, with the possible exception of Cory Booker, who’s going right at it. So the space that she’s in could get crowded if suddenly Joe Biden runs and Mike Bloomberg runs and Terry McAuliffe or John Hickenlooper, former governors from Virginia and Colorado, run.michael barbaroThen she won’t be alone.alexander burnsThat middle space would get real crowded.michael barbaroAlex, more broadly, it feels like the risk here in the Democrats building their message and their platforms around the economy and running against President Trump is that the economy is doing pretty well. Isn’t it possible that in a year or so, if the economy stays doing this well, that voters are going to look around and see all of the Democratic Party promising to blow things up, and they’re going to think to themselves, I don’t want to blow up this system that’s working reasonably well for me?alexander burnsIt’s entirely possible. And one of the ironies of the race that we’re seeing so far is Donald Trump as kind of a status quo candidate, as a let’s-not-shake-things-up-too-much candidate on the specific issue of the economy. He’s obviously not that kind of candidate or president more generally. But this is also a place where, in some ways, Democrats are taking a lesson from Trump’s candidacy in 2016. I think we all remember when Trump was out there talking about “make America great again” that one of the really big Democratic applause lines was, America is already great. And it turns out that a lot of voters did not agree with that. And the president is counting on that working for him in 2020.michael barbaroSo make America’s economy greater could basically be the Democratic Party slogan for 2020?alexander burnsAbsolutely. The core of the Democratic message in 2020 will almost certainly be about the economy, unless we have some kind of catastrophic intervening event that nobody is hoping for, and because they feel that the economic message is what was missing last time. They all basically agree with each other, and they all basically agree with Hillary Clinton on social and cultural issues that are at the heart of American politics. And they all disagree strongly with Donald Trump on those issues. Where they don’t agree with each other and where the party has not yet found its identity on the national level is on these economic issues.michael barbaroAnd it’s where they don’t know where the country is.alexander burnsIt’s where they don’t know where a controlling coalition of voters can be found. They know what it looks like to win a midterm election with an economic message. They know what it looks like to lose a presidential election with a weak economic message. They don’t yet know what it means to put together a winning message on the economy in the Trump era in a presidential race.michael barbaroAlex, thank you very much.alexander burnsThank you.Mr. Brown, who has proposed opening the Medicare program to people as young as 50, suggested that a European-style system would be unsettling for people who “would have their insurance plans canceled and move into a government plan.”Ms. Klobuchar, a more traditional moderate, highlighted a similar set of alternatives to a single-payer system on Monday, including greatly expanding access to the Medicaid program. She also pushed back on Mr. Sanders’s proposal for free four-year college, calling it unaffordable and calling for expanded economic opportunities for people who do not attend college.“If I was a magic genie and could give that to everyone and we could afford it, I would,” Ms. Klobuchar said, underscoring her assessment of the idea’s practicality.In a field stocked with charismatic liberals, there is considerable risk for any candidate who attempts to deflate the grandest hopes of the left. Even voters who do not demand Sanders-like ideological purity could opt for any number of alternatives if they are put off by a reality check of Klobuchar-like bluntness.Yet for Ms. Klobuchar — and Mr. Brown, if he runs — giving unwanted news to the Democratic base may amount to a bet that voters will reward them for their candor. There is some reason to believe that wager might pay off in an election when Democratic voters appear less concerned with ideological litmus tests than with defeating Mr. Trump.Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster who is advising another potential 2020 contender, former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado, argued that Democratic voters are open to a range of methods for achieving their social goals, so long as the candidates proposing them are progressive and sincere in their intentions.“The framing of this — that there’s a set of ideologically pure primary voters who have only one idea about how to address climate change or secure affordable universal health care — is just wrong,” Ms. Greenberg said.AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]On his now-frequent tours of early presidential primary states, Mayor Bill de Blasio has taken to invoking a less-familiar aspect of his tenure: a nearly $1 billion plan to address mental illness in New York City.Mr. de Blasio’s wife, Chirlane McCray, has done the same, presenting the effort as a national model to audiences from Atlanta to Seattle.The mental health initiative, known as ThriveNYC, is crucial to Ms. McCray’s potential as a future political candidate, and has become increasingly important to Mr. de Blasio as he toys with a possible 2020 presidential bid. He now regularly names Thrive as one of his administration’s core achievements.“It’s revolutionary,” Mr. de Blasio told CNN’s Symone Sanders during a recent forum at Harvard University.But back home, the effort, now in its fourth year, has sputtered. The plan, which includes dozens of discrete programs across 15 city agencies, has undergone two leadership changes in the last year; the most recent saw a top official from the Police Department, Susan Herman, taking charge last month.Ms. McCray, who created and oversees ThriveNYC, faced tough questions on its performance and spending during a packed special hearing of the City Council on Tuesday. The city comptroller is also investigating.During the hearing, Ms. McCray distanced herself from the operations of the program, and left it to Ms. Herman and a budget official to answer many of the more specific questions.“Susan Herman does the day-to-day management and makes the decisions,” Ms. McCray said when asked about her role, adding that her role was to amplify ThriveNYC’s “message to the public.”Pressed on how much of the program’s budget went to the seriously mentally ill, Ms. McCray responded by questioning how that category is defined. Roughly 10 percent of the Thrive budget, more than $30 million in the current fiscal year, goes to address serious mental illness, according to City Hall. (Separately, the Health Department spends nearly 10 times as much on the seriously mentally ill.)Ms. Herman stressed more than once during the hearing that Thrive was “not a new mental health system.” That message contrasted one repeated by Mr. de Blasio, including during a radio interview on Friday. “Before the Thrive initiative,” he said, “there was not even a pretense of a mental health system in the city.”For all the talk, the initiative has been less sweeping than envisioned: A third of the budget has not been spent, according to an analysis of city data by The New York Times. Repeatedly presented by City Hall as a four-year $850 million plan, city officials now say $560 million will have been spent in that time.The biggest challenge for Mr. de Blasio and Ms. McCray has been to identify concrete results. A spreadsheet of nearly 500 data points tracked by City Hall included almost none related to patient outcomes.City officials, for example, could not say how many people have been connected to treatment after calling the city’s new mental health hotline, because fewer than 10 percent agree to a follow-up.“It is a hard thing to measure, because it’s never existed before,” Ms. McCray said in an interview at Gracie Mansion last month. “So, what are the right measures?”At least one available barometer hinted at the challenges that the city still faces in dealing with mental illness: More New Yorkers dialed 911 to report a person in the midst of a mental health crisis last year — 179,000 calls — than at any point in more than a decade.Public health officials credit the plan for drawing attention to mental health, often too easily ignored by political leaders. Ms. McCray, for example, seldom talks about Thrive without imploring audience to repeat the number of its mental health hotline, 1-888-NYC-WELL.At the same time, some initiatives failed to get started, while others placed unrealistic demands on already strained mental health services.“Are we there yet? No,” Dr. Gary Belkin, a top health official and the chief of policy and strategy for Thrive, said of using the hotline to connect people to care effectively. “But we’ve built the structure that can get us there.”Much of the development of Thrive was personal, born of Mr. de Blasio’s and Ms. McCray’s own difficulties navigating the mental health system on behalf of their daughter, Chiara, who struggled with depression and drugs during high school and college.“It was not as obvious what I, as first lady, would take on; I wanted to take on something big,” Ms. McCray said in the interview. That first year, she began talking with Dr. Belkin. She took a mental health first aid course in October 2014.Over the next four years, Ms. McCray would transform herself into a mental health evangelist.“What do they always tell you when you’re in high school or in college? You should choose to work on something that you would do without pay,” she said. “And guess what — I finally found it.” (She receives no pay for her city work.)Not all of the programs in her plan were new. The city invested heavily on mental health before the de Blasio administration: For example, the Health Department spent $243 million in the 2014 fiscal year on mental health contracts. With Thrive, spending rose to $346 million in fiscal year 2018, according to an analysis by the City Council.Besides the ramped-up spending, a big part of Thrive has been Ms. McCray’s advocacy. She has traveled the city urging New Yorkers, particularly in black and Hispanic communities, to open up and to erase the stigma around mental health. She occasionally speaks of her own experience with therapy, and in the interview, she spoke obliquely of her brief return to treatment last year. “Something happened that triggered the need for me to go,” she said without elaborating. “I felt like I was not able to function.”But City Hall is still struggling to quantify the payoff from her efforts. Dr. Belkin said that while suicide rates are not the best measure, the Health Department has been looking at trends in suicide attempts, based on emergency room visits. Officials are also collecting survey data. (According to data provided by the city, surveys of about 10,000 callers to NYC-WELL since late 2016 found about 60 percent felt better after calling the number.)One indicator of the need for services: The phones at NYC-WELL ring constantly, 180,000 times in 2018, according to city data. (Some are repeat callers, with a few who call as many as 200 times a day.)The call center, operated under city contract, took over the old Lower Manhattan offices of a city suicide hotline known as LifeNet, a service with calls that peaked at 105,000 in 2014. During a recent visit, a screen played YouTube videos of adorable animals, to help soothe staff members who work in sound-dampened cubicles. The service also includes text and web chat.People can receive confidential crisis counseling and referrals. But the interaction is not therapy, cautioned Dr. Anitha Iyer, who helps oversee the call center. “That’s a misconception that people often have,” she said.Few of those who dial the number agree to a follow-up call, making it hard to gauge its effectiveness. So far, almost all of the information on follow-up care comes from the limited cases in which a social worker and psychiatrist have been sent to visit the person.And even some experienced in mental health services have been surprised at what the service does not offer.A retired psychiatric social worker dialed NYC-WELL last year hoping for a nonpolice response for his 37-year-old son, who had been making threats and had a history of manic episodes. The father asked for a psychiatrist and a social worker to be sent to the home.He was told a team like that could not come for at least a day, maybe two; for immediate help, call 911.“They sent a whole army of police,” said the father, who asked to be referred to only by his first name, Ralph, to protect his son’s privacy. Initially, his son refused to cooperate. “That escalated the situation,” he said. The officers eventually brought him to Elmhurst Hospital, nearby.Mental health advocates have been pressing the city to overhaul how emergency personnel respond to situations involving people experiencing the effects of severe mental health issues. But the police are still often the only ones available to respond quickly to calls, even to the mental health line.The Thrive program budgeted millions to create diversion centers, a place other than jail for officers to bring those experiencing a mental health crisis.But problems with the city’s initial proposals delayed the process, those involved said. Two locations have been selected, in East Harlem and the Bronx, but neither has opened yet. More than $15 million has been budgeted over the last three years for the effort; none has been spent.“They have good ideas, but the implementation is what they stumble on,” said Steve Coe, the chief executive of Community Access, which provides housing and other services to the mentally ill.Thrive’s primary focus is on the other end of the spectrum: New Yorkers who have less serious and possibly undiagnosed mental health problems, a population that according to City Hall encompasses 1.7 million city residents.To serve that population, the city is spending $12 million a year on the NYC-WELL hotline — not including nearly $11 million spent on advertising in 2017, mostly to promote the service.Another prominent element of Thrive is an expansion of mental health first aid training. Health Department employees now conduct the eight-hour classes daily at churches, schools and community centers.Ms. McCray implores those she meets to take the course, which includes discussions and role playing. So far, she has not been able to get the mayor to take it. (“He’s kind of busy,” she said.)But the vast majority of city spending on the program goes to more than 40 other endeavors, such as a crime victim advocate program; social and emotional learning in public schools; and a corps of young behavioral health clinicians paid by the city to work at nonprofits for three years.Even as the city has poured money into mental health programs and training, nonprofit directors said they still struggle with providing treatment, citing inadequate Medicaid reimbursement rates and even less generous reimbursements from commercial insurers. Some have closed their doors; others have chosen to stop providing mental health services.David Woodlock, president of the Institute for Community Living and a former top state health official, praised Ms. McCray for her courage in taking on mental health issues. But he bemoaned the inadequacy of state funding, and called the city’s contracting process broken.“People are being asked to do more in this system that is not built for expansion,” he said.Helping the seriously mentally ill remains a challenge, especially in a crisis. Those moments often involve the police, and have led to confrontations where officers have been injured, and the person the officers came to help getting physically hurt or killed.During one such episode in 2012, a man whose family members called 911 to try to help him, attacked one of the responding officers, stabbing him in the neck and face.The man, Benedy Abreu, 31, served five years in prison and is now in a program funded through Thrive to help those with serious mental illness and a criminal past. He receives regular visits from a psychiatrist and a peer counselor.“Everyone in life goes through something,” said Stacey Hamilton, 52, a peer specialist and social worker, reassuring Mr. Abreu during a recent visit that he, too, could become a peer counselor and recalling her own history of mental illness and incarceration.Later, she wondered aloud whether her work with men like Mr. Abreu would be enough. “If this is the highest level of care,” she asked, “how many success stories are there really?”In an earlier version of this article, the location of a community class was misidentified in a photo caption. It took place at the Metropolitan College of New York, not at Manhattan College.Follow J. David Goodman on Twitter: @jdavidgoodmanAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Oprah Winfrey and Britain's Prince Harry have teamed up to produce an Apple documentary next year aimed at raising awareness of mental health.Harry, who revealed he had come very close to a breakdown after the death of his mother Princess Diana when he was 12, has made mental health campaigning one of his priorities.Harry's frank disclosures about his own torment helped to break down some of the current British taboos over discussion of mental health issues in public.He and Winfrey, one of the world's most influential media moguls, have been working on the project for a few months."I truly believe that good mental health – mental fitness – is the key to powerful leadership, productive communities and a purpose-driven self," Harry said in a statement."Our hope is that this series will be positive, enlightening and inclusive – sharing global stories of unparalleled human spirit fighting back from the darkest places, and the opportunity for us to understand ourselves and those around us better."AdvertisementSupported byVideos by Jonah M. KesselHEFEI, China — The Chinese government claims that it provides medical coverage for nearly all of its citizens. But the reality is that the country’s health care system is broken.Attacks by frustrated patients against doctors are common. Some patients who lack access to lifesaving drugs have resorted to making them at home. Long lines filled with people desperate for treatment wrap around hospitals and administrators have been accused of corruption.A stat from the World Health Organization captures just how broken the system is:: There is one general practitioner for every 6,666 people, compared with the international standard of one for every 1,500 to 2,000 people.The crisis is felt most acutely by those living in rural areas. This includes children with serious diseases who move to cities with their families for therapies unavailable in their regions.As we learned from interviews with families struggling to keep their children alive, they’re sometimes referred to as “cancer refugees.” It helps explain why illness is the leading cause of poverty in China.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Robert PearWASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s decision to ask a federal appeals court to invalidate the Affordable Care Act has given House Democrats a new opening to pursue what they see as a winning political strategy: moving past talk of impeachment to put kitchen-table issues like health care front and center.The notice to the court, filed late Monday by the Justice Department, could not have come at a more opportune time for Democrats. The finding by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, that there was no evidence of a criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia, dashed the hopes of the most partisan Democrats that the House would impeach the president.Speaker Nancy Pelosi — who celebrated her 79th birthday on Tuesday — had already planned to move to change the conversation with the unveiling of the Democrats’ own health care plan on Tuesday. The Democrats’ bill aims to lower health insurance premiums, strengthen protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions and ban the sale of what Democrats call “junk insurance.”The Justice Department’s move gave the unveiling an urgency that not even she could have anticipated.“The Republicans did say during the campaign that they weren’t there to undermine the pre-existing condition benefit, and here they are, right now, saying they’re going to strip the whole Affordable Care Act as the law of the land,” Ms. Pelosi told reporters Tuesday, adding, “This is actually an opportunity for us to speak to the American people with clarity.”The administration staked out its new position in a lawsuit that was filed by Republican attorneys general in Texas and other states after Congress failed in 2017 to repeal the Affordable Care Act, but later reduced the law’s tax penalty for people who do not have insurance to zero. The suit contended that the absence of the real tax penalty rendered the law’s “individual mandate” — the requirement that most Americans have insurance — unconstitutional.Without a requirement to purchase insurance, they argued, the law could not then insist that insurance companies cover pre-existing medical conditions and a suite of other “essential health benefits,” such as maternity care and prescription drugs.A judge in Texas agreed and invalidated the entire law, including its expansion of Medicaid and subsidies to help many low- and middle-income people buy insurance. The Justice Department initially said that only parts of the law, including its protections for pre-existing conditions, should be struck down. But on Monday, it expanded its attack to say the whole law should be invalidated.The Justice Department’s move caught both parties by surprise, and put Republicans in a very awkward position.“Not only is this a poor political move, this decision hurts real people who will unfairly lose their health insurance coverage as a result,” said Representative Tom Reed, Republican of New York. “We need to work to find ways to fix our health care system — not blow it up.”Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House Republican leader, at first said, “I haven’t read through what they — was it last night?” He then added, “I think the president has always been very clear that he wanted to repeal Obamacare, and to put a system in that actually lowers the cost and protects individuals’ pre-existing conditions.”Other Republicans were more pointed. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, whose vote helped sink the 2017 repeal effort and who is up for re-election in 2020, pronounced herself “very disappointed,” with the Justice Department’s position.“I thought it was bad enough when last year they wouldn’t defend parts of the law, including the parts protecting people with pre-existing conditions,” Ms. Collins said. “This goes far beyond that and I think was a huge mistake.”But Mr. Trump wholeheartedly embraced the new position on Tuesday, both on Twitter and in the Capitol, shortly before joining Senate Republicans at a closed-door luncheon. “The Republican Party will soon become the party of health care,” he told a throng of reporters and photographers, echoing what he had already written on social media.The president used the closed-door meeting in the Capitol for a rambling, unscripted recitation of his legislative priorities, and repeated his intention to make the subject of health care a major issue over the next two years. That pronouncement elicited a muted response, according to a person in the room.After the luncheon, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Senate health committee, echoed Mr. Trump’s message: “We have to become more the party of health care.”That is not ground the Democrats will easily cede. After months of distracting talk about the Mueller report and impeachment, they are pushing hard to pivot toward the issues that helped elect them — not just health care, but also bigger pay checks and cleaner government.On Wednesday, the House will vote on the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would amend a 1963 law to make it easier for women to challenge pay discrimination.“The focus from the media has been all over Mueller, Russia and so forth,” said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, a close ally of Ms. Pelosi. “Day in and day out, literally 24 hours a day. But lest you think that is the only thing that members are focused on, that’s wrong.”At a closed-door meeting of House Democrats Tuesday morning, Ms. Pelosi praised Ms. DeLauro’s pay equity legislation and urged her fellow Democrats to “stay focused” on issues that matter to most people, not Washington partisans.At his regular weekly news conference, Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the Democratic Caucus chairman, studiously avoided the Mueller inquiry as he talked up the “For the People” agenda that they notionally campaigned on. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about Russia,” he said. “Nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about collusion; nowhere in the For the People agenda does it talk about obstruction of justice.”Instead, Mr. Jeffries attacked Republicans for “launching an assault on health care in the United States of America.”In the nine years since it was signed by President Barack Obama, the Affordable Care Act has become deeply ingrained in the nation’s health care system. It revamped the way Medicare pays doctors, hospitals and other health care providers. It unleashed innovation in the delivery of health care. Since its passage, the health insurance industry has invented a new business model selling coverage to anyone who applies, regardless of any pre-existing conditions.The law also includes dozens of other less known provisions. Chain restaurants are now required to print nutrition labeling and calorie counts on standard menu items. Certain employers must now provide “reasonable break time” and a private space for nursing mothers to pump breast milk. The law also improved prescription drug coverage for Medicare beneficiaries, and created a new pathway for the approval of less expensive versions of advanced “biologic” medicines made from living cells.Lawyers and other experts say that uprooting the law could have “dire consequences for millions of people,” in the words of Abbe R. Gluck, a law professor at Yale who has closely followed the litigation. It would also raise legal and practical questions.“The Justice Department’s position is mind-boggling,” said Timothy S. Jost, an emeritus professor of health law at Washington and Lee University. “The Affordable Care Act affects the whole health care system, including Medicare, Medicaid, the Food and Drug Administration, the Indian Health Service and much more. The administration is asking the appeals court to invalidate the entire law without really knowing exactly what that would mean. It’s reckless.”But Ken Paxton, the attorney general of Texas who led the group of Republican state officials who challenged the Affordable Care Act, said he welcomed the Trump administration’s latest expression of support for a lawsuit that had already prompted a district court judge in Texas to strike down the health law. That judge’s ruling in December has been on hold as the matter winds its way through the court system.“We have always been confident that the district court’s extremely well-reasoned opinion was correct on the law, just as we have also always been confident that this administration takes its obligation to uphold the Constitution seriously,” Marc Rylander, a spokesman for Mr. Paxton, said Tuesday. “We applaud the Department of Justice’s faithful execution of that duty.”In addition to inciting a furor on Capitol Hill, the administration’s new position is also certain to take center stage as an issue in the 2020 elections. Democrats have been saying that Mr. Trump still wants to abolish the law, and they can now point to the Justice Department’s filing as proof.The Democrats’ offensive on health care is more than an effort to draw a contrast with Republicans. But in unveiling their bill on Tuesday, Democratic leaders were also trying to smooth over internal divisions between liberals pushing the single-payer government insurance plan known as “Medicare for all” and centrists, who are calling for a more incremental approach.The House Democrats’ health care plan, put together by Ms. Pelosi and several House committee chairmen, builds on the Affordable Care Act, which the speaker was instrumental in passing.It would overturn a rule Mr. Trump issued in August that greatly expanded the market for sales of short-term insurance plans that do not have to cover prescription drugs, maternity care, drug abuse treatment or pre-existing conditions. And it would increase the two main types of financial assistance the law provides: tax credits to help low- and middle-income people pay premiums, and cost-sharing reductions to lower deductibles, co-payments and other out-of-pocket costs.At Tuesday’s news conference, Democrats were eager to remind reporters that Mr. Trump said in the 2018 campaign that “Republicans will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.”“We will remind the American people time and time again of that broken promise,” said Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the No. 3 House Democrat.Glenn Thrush, Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reed AbelsonUnitedHealth Group, the giant health insurance company, on Friday lost its case to prevent a former executive from working at the new health care venture formed by three powerful corporations, Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase.A federal judge in Boston denied UnitedHealth’s request to have the executive, David William Smith, immediately stop working. Mr. Smith was an executive at Optum, a unit of UnitedHealth, and it accused him of taking corporate secrets to what it claimed was a competitor. Mr. Smith has denied any wrongdoing.In its court filings, UnitedHealth argued that Mr. Smith’s role at Optum made him privy to sensitive information about its plans. Among Optum’s businesses is one of the nation’s largest pharmacy benefit managers, which serve as intermediaries between drug makers and employers that purchase medicine for their workers.The industry has been sharply criticized for a lack of transparency in how pharmacy benefits managers operate, and Optum’s two main rivals recently merged with two large insurers, Aetna and Cigna.While Judge Mark L. Wolf ruled against it, Optum emphasized that the issues remain unresolved and would need to be settled in arbitration. “We are committed to protecting our confidential information and will aggressively do so in arbitration,” said Matt Stearns, a spokesman for Optum, in an emailed statement.A spokeswoman for the new venture, referred to as “A.B.C.” or “A.B.J.” in court papers, declined to comment. Unlike court proceedings, the arbitration sessions would not be public.The case against the nascent venture has highlighted the anxiety of established insurance companies and pharmacy benefit managers over newcomers to their territory. From start-ups to giant technology firms, the new rivals threaten to unseat companies, like UnitedHealth, that have traditionally dominated these markets. Amazon, which has made tentative forays into the pharmacy business, has emerged as a particularly worrisome competitor.The legal wrangling, which included testimony unsealed by the judge earlier this week, also revealed new details about the powerful triumvirate’s plans. While the companies have said that the new venture was not created to generate profits, they have been cryptic about exactly what changes they could make to lower costs and improve the quality of care for their employees. The company made  headlines last summer with its choice of chief executive, Dr. Atul Gawande, a high-profile physician who writes for The New Yorker.The court proceedings also underscored just how unhappy customers — particularly these three employers — are with the status quo.“We’ve been asked to solve a very big problem, which is to figure out new ways of health care,” John C. Stoddard, a senior executive for the new venture, testified.The three employers combined are spending about $4 billion a year on the roughly one million people they cover. But employees “have a poor experience,” Mr. Stoddard said.“They’re not getting the care they need, and the costs continue to rise,” he said. “We wouldn’t exist unless there was a need to come up with and find a new solution to the problem.”The venture, which has no name and fewer than 20 employees, plans to tackle several areas, including how benefits are provided through traditional health insurance plans, Mr. Stoddard said. High deductibles, which force employees to pay for significant amounts of their care before their insurance kicks in, are a hardship for “fulfillment-center workers and call-center workers,” he said.The companies also want to see if they can lower the cost of drugs for chronic conditions. In his testimony, Mr. Stoddard insisted that the new venture had no plans to enter the pharmacy business but wanted to better understand the process and the actual cost of drugs.“That doesn’t make us a competitor,” he said. “That makes us a very informed customer.”The employers also want to make it easier for workers to see a doctor, Mr. Stoddard testified. Because Optum also operates a large network of primary-care doctors, the venture might want to work with Optum to provide employees with easier access to physicians.“That’s why this is so crazy to me: that they think of us as competitors, when I see us as potential partners,” Mr. Stoddard said.Like other large employers, the companies also want to see if they can make better use of doctor and hospital data and identify where employees can go for better care at lower prices.The venture plans to conduct a series of experiments to test new approaches for smaller groups of employees with various partners, including Optum, Mr. Stoddard said.But while Mr. Stoddard would not rule out the possibility that the venture could be a competitor, he emphasized that it had a different purpose. Unlike Optum, which he described as trying to “maximize profits,” the new organization is “trying to create value for families who are trying to use the health care system,” he said.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Wednesday. There was a small earthquake off the coast of Long Island yesterday morning.Weather: Today will be cool, sunny and breezy — the way that I always want it to be. Temperatures are expected to top out in the high 50s around 4 p.m.Alternate-side parking: In effect until April 18 (Holy Thursday).New York City is experiencing one of the largest measles outbreaks in the United States in decades, with 285 confirmed cases since the fall, mainly in ultra-Orthodox Jewish communities in Brooklyn.On Tuesday, city officials declared a public health emergency, requiring people in four ZIP codes in Brooklyn to get vaccinated or face penalties.“We are absolutely certain we have the power to do this,” Mayor de Blasio said at a news conference in Brooklyn. “This is the epicenter of a measles outbreak.”[Read more about New York City’s public health emergency and the fight against measles.][“Monkey, rat and pig DNA”: How misinformation is driving the measles outbreak among ultra-Orthodox Jews.]The city declared a public health emergency. Now what?The city is focusing on four ZIP codes in Williamsburg and Borough Park, Brooklyn: 11205, 11206, 11211 and 11249.People living, working or going to school in those areas who also have come into contact with someone who has measles now have three options:• Get vaccinated.• Prove that they already were vaccinated.• Pay a fine of $1,000 for each time they were exposed to the disease.How will the city know if someone was in contact with a person who has measles?That’s the job of disease detectives. No, seriously: That’s what they’re called.Disease detectives figure out who is sick, when they became sick and how they might have gotten sick, according to the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. This information helps doctors and health officials trace the source of an outbreak and ultimately contain it.Or, if you prefer another reference point: A disease detective is like the character Brad Pitt played in the movie “World War Z.”Will the city vaccinate people against their will?No.“We will not be forcibly vaccinating individuals,” a City Hall spokeswoman, Marcy Miranda, wrote in an email to The Times. Officials “will work with people to educate them about the safety and importance of vaccines and will issue necessary fines as needed,” she wrote.Why is measles spreading? Wasn’t it eradicated?Years ago, the number of confirmed measles cases in the United States dropped to a very low point, but the virus was never eliminated.In 2000, there were no reported cases of the disease in the United States. In 2004, there were 37 confirmed cases in the country. In 2014, that number jumped to 667, according to the C.D.C.In recent years, vaccination rates worldwide fell, largely because of misinformation about the dangers of vaccinations.To be clear: Vaccines are safe, and not getting vaccinated enables the disease to spread.What have other places done to stop measles outbreaks?Rockland County, a suburban area north of the city, tried banning unvaccinated individuals from public spaces, restaurants, shopping areas and houses of worship last month.A judge recently halted the policy.A New York City firefighter went to serve in Afghanistan. He was killed by a roadside bomb.“Jane Doe Ponytail” died in New York. Now her brother is taking her home to China.Bob Slade, a distinguished voice on black radio, has died. He was 70.Two women were killed on a beach vacation in 1973. A DNA test just led to an arrest.A night at the museum with beer and skulls.How Gold’s Horseradish became a Passover staple.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Bad veterinarians rarely face punishment in New York. [The City] Cardinal Timothy Dolan announced plans to create up to 2,000 units of below-market-rate housing in New York City over the next decade. [amNew York]Meet the 16 people who may decide the fate of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]A Mount Vernon couple missing since last month may have been found dead in the Dominican Republic. [Daily News]Yes, new bars and restaurants are trying to look vintage. [Grub Street]Marc Lamont Hill, a professor at Temple University,  talks about the concept of solidarity at New York University’s Kimmel Center for University Life in Manhattan. 6:30 p.m. [Free]A night of comedy dedicated to “Game of Thrones,” ahead of the HBO show’s final season, at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater in Manhattan. 9 p.m. [$10.50]“Ask Me Another,” the NPR and WNYC live show that mixes trivia games with comedy and music, returns to the Bell House in Brooklyn with a special guest, the actress and comedian Retta. 6:45 p.m. [$20]— Iman StevensonEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Are humans shaping technology, or is technology shaping us?You may find answers at an exhibit called “Bionic Me,” at the New York Hall of Science in Queens.There’s an ethics test in which participants record their answers not by filling out a sheet of paper or pressing buttons on a keyboard, but with “eye-motion tracking technology,” said Lauren Parikhal, a marketing and communications manager at the Hall of Science.There is also an exoskeleton that children can climb into and, with a little help from a computer screen, act “as if they were a superhuman-strong robot on a factory floor,” she said.One of the more challenging features involves two balls inside a tube, connected to a computer that measures brain waves.The goal is to get the ball to hover higher than your opponent’s. To get the ball to hover higher in the tube, you have to lower your brain wave activity.“You can see the calmness of your brain directly related to the position of the ball in the tube,” Ms. Parikhal said. “I see some kids struggle with it because they don’t really understand what it means to take a deep breath and clear your mind.”“Bionic Me” is open until May 5.Admission to the Hall of Science is $16 for adults, $13 for children and seniors.It’s Wednesday — let your geek flag fly.Dear Diary:I am an inveterate jogger. Once, when I was out for a run on a Wednesday night in 1979, I had a memorable meeting with a motorist in distress at the northbound 96th Street exit off the F.D.R. Drive.I had run up that way from my apartment in Stuyvesant Town on East 20th Street.I was about to turn around at 96th Street and head back south when I saw a driver stopped at the side of the road in a way that suggested car trouble. It was my sister. She worked on the West Side then and commuted from Westchester County.Adding to the magic of the coincidence was that even though I have never been mechanically inclined, I was able to make a temporary repair that got her back on the road.The problem was a disconnected exhaust pipe. I asked my sister to give me her stockings. Then I shimmied under the car and used them to tie the pipe to the chassis.In about five minutes, we were on our way: she to Westchester, and me back to 20th Street.— John McMahonAdvertisementSupported byTravel TipsFor women and L.G.B.T.Q. people, finding friendly medical care away from home can be a challenge. There are resources they can turn to.By Jess McHughLola Méndez is no stranger to new experiences. Ms. Méndez, 29, an American freelance travel writer, has explored 56 countries, documenting her adventures on her blog. She has visited ancient tombs in Vietnam and trekked across mountains in Chiang Mai, Thailand.While working as an English teacher in Spain in 2015, she had to embark on a new kind of undertaking: going to the gynecologist in a foreign country. Many women don’t look forward to their yearly exam, and language barriers made an awkward situation all the more unnerving for Ms. Méndez. But her appointment soon went from uncomfortable to degrading.When she asked for an S.T.I. (Sexually Transmitted Infection) screening — a routine request for yearly exams — the doctor told her that it wasn’t worth his time. If she had an S.T.I., he said, she’d just get another one. Ms. Méndez tried to insist, but he refused again and again, telling her only prostitutes contracted S.T.I.s. They went back and forth until she was in tears. “It was just so demeaning. I was doing something to check in on my health and he made feel like I was a prostitute,” Ms. Méndez said in an interview.Ms. Méndez then skipped future annual appointments for nearly two years, fearing she would be shamed by another doctor. Her experience is unfortunately common among women looking for reproductive care, both in the U.S. and abroad, as they cope with stigmas and laws that vary country to country and even city to city.People who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or queer (L.G.B.T.Q.), similarly face bias in health care systems worldwide. More than 50 percent of the community reports receiving discriminatory treatment from health care providers, and that number jumps to 70 percent among only transgender people, according to Lambda Legal, an advocacy organization.Each person’s concerns are unique, but no one should be afraid to go to the doctor if they get sick. Here are some tips for finding better, inclusive health care while traveling abroad.Travelers can use social media for more than just making their friends envious of their dream vacations. It can also serve as an indispensable resource for finding quality health care while traveling.Social networks can serve as a sort of digitized version of the whisper network that women and L.G.B.T.Q. people have long used to protect themselves from potential threats. Facebook groups exist for just about every identity and destination around the world, functioning as an invaluable resource for people who end up needing to seek health care abroad.“Any kind of online social group I think could be one avenue for looking for options and making connections locally — and hearing what’s going on on the ground.” said John Tanzella, president and C.E.O. of the International Gay & Lesbian Travel Association (I.G.L.T.A.).At the same time, both Tanzella and other experts in the field of travel health medicine urged travelers to use caution when taking advice online. Tullia Marcolongo, executive director of International Association for Medical Assistance to Travelers (I.A.M.A.T.), warned against using social media for questions on travel vaccines in particular, an area where misinformation can be rife on the internet.When it comes to your health while traveling, knowledge is power. Travelers should make themselves familiar not only with the specific health risks of any given destination, but with its laws and culture. Dozens of countries around the world have restrictive laws surrounding sexuality, and those can impact the type of medical care you get when you need it. In Qatar and the UAE, for example, being pregnant and unmarried is illegal and can carry a jail sentence. While these laws mostly target migrant workers, they technically can be applied to anyone. In upward of 70 countries, same-sex relationships are a crime.Alongside the usual travel warnings from the State Department, Equaldex and the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association (I.G.L.A.) track sexual orientation laws by country, so you can be prepared before you even book your trip. Resources from the International Gay and Lesbian Travel Association (I.G.L.T.A.) offer planning tools for destinations around the globe. New resources such as Gynopedia can also be indispensable to women travelers, as the crowdsourced wiki provides information on reproductive rights around the world.Local U.S. embassies post lists of English-speaking doctors in any given destination, as do travel organizations such as International S.O.S., the International Society of Travel Medicine (I.S.T.M.), and International Association for Medical Assistance to Travelers (I.A.M.A.T.). None of these lists are L.G.B.T.Q. or women-specific, but the doctors listed have usually trained in Western cultures. The International Consortium for Emergency Contraception (I.C.E.C.) provides country-specific information for emergency contraception in particular.We often assume that doctors’ offices are a space safe from judgment, but for many people, complete transparency can attract undue risk. When Lani Fried started Gynopedia, she learned in her research for the site that in dozens of countries, women could put themselves at greater risk if they openly discussed sexuality with a health care practitioner. “There’s the question of honesty versus safety,” Ms. Fried said. “You want to be honest about your needs and be able to communicate them, but in certain environments if you’re completely honest, you might feel like you are exposing yourself to more judgment, or harassment, or kind of creepy behavior.”Many travelers don’t realize that their insurance usually doesn’t cover them while traveling abroad.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Former Olympic gold medalist Peter Kennaugh is taking a break from professional cycling as a result of mental health issues, the rider and his Bora-Hansgrohe team said on Friday."Peter will be taking an indefinite break from professional cycling due to ongoing mental health issues," Bora-Hansgrohe said in a statement. "The Team supports Peter in his decision and have agreed that this is the best course of action to ensure he can return to full health in the near future."The 2014 and 2015 British road racing champion was a member of the Team Sky who helped Chris Froome win two of his four Tour de France titles in 2013 and 2015.The 29-year-old, who won the team pursuit gold medal at the London Olympics with Edward Clancy, Geraint Thomas and Steven Burke, left the British outfit for Bora-Hansgrohe last year.AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareAmericans tend to overestimate the problems in poorer nations. By Austin Frakt and Aaron E. CarrollIn so many domains, life is improving across the world. It doesn’t always feel that way. In surveys, Americans overwhelmingly believe that world poverty is getting worse or staying the same (it’s getting much better). And they tend to underestimate, by a wide margin, the percentages of children in the developing world who are receiving vaccines. Public health campaigns have been a big reason for major improvements, but urgent priorities remain. The biggest area of need is probably in infectious disease prevention and treatment. Devi Sridhar, a professor of global public health at the University of Edinburgh, said we need to focus on respiratory diseases. “Childhood pneumonia is the leading infectious cause of death in under-5 children and kills more kids than malaria and diarrhea combined,” she said. In 2016, the disease killed an estimated 880,000 children, most under age 2, deaths that could have been prevented with vaccination or antibiotics.But there has been progress in the fight against some other major killers.Ashish Jha, a physician with the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health and the director of the Harvard Global Health Institute, said there have been major drops in the mortality of children under 5 (down more than 50 percent in the last three decades), and he pointed to other encouraging advancements: the halving of deaths of women at childbirthsignificant decreases in death from malaria a turnaround in the H.I.V. epidemicincreased life expectancy in every country Funding science research has led to new therapies, and global funding programs like Pepfar in the United States have made those medicines widely available, Dr. Jha said. Pepfar, begun under the administration of George W. Bush to combat the H.I.V. epidemic, says it has saved more than 16 million lives, primarily in Africa.Establishing regional organizations to respond to outbreaks is also important, “as the 2014 to 2015 West African Ebola epidemic taught us,” said Peter Piot, a physician and director of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.The introduction of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 2017 “marks an important step toward strengthening capacity and preparedness across the continent,” he said.Some investments may not even seem to focus on health. Dr. Jha singled out girls’ education as the thing he’d invest in first. “Beyond its big effects on economic prosperity, it also leads to smaller family sizes, lower infant mortality, more stable families and communities, and likely lower levels of disease burdens like H.I.V.”Improving health care systems can be crucial. Shoddy ones can actually cause harm — never mind failing to heal the sick. A 2012 study in Health Affairs showed that in rural areas of India, two-thirds of health professionals had no medical qualifications whatsoever. Incorrect diagnoses and treatments were more common than correct ones. In some cases, the West may be hurting, not helping, the health of developing nations.Dr. Piot said sustained action was needed “to tackle growing epidemics of obesity and diabetes.” The New York Times reported on a practice, with roots in the West, in which nutritionists in developing countries take money from food giants. These international food companies have formed some alliances with scientists and government officials. In some of these countries, obesity is now common as American-style eating habits gain popularity. Nearly all the experts we talked to agreed that cigarette smoking was a major problem. Dr. Piot said, “We need an all-out effort against smoking.” In the United States, rates of cigarette smoking recently have fallen to a record low. But as smoking rates have declined in many Western nations, some companies have sought to maintain access to fast-growing markets in developing countries by working to limit antismoking laws, as The Times has reported. As in the United States, antibiotic overuse and abuse cause problems in the developing world. Dr. Sridhar said, “Here public health investment does not necessarily mean health system investment — it also means investment in regulating agricultural (and food production systems) and effluents from pharma factories.”Some months ago, we illustrated that while public health has phenomenal returns on investment in the United States, America puts relatively few dollars into it. We then asked experts about the biggest remaining U.S. priorities. (Readers chimed in, too). Developing nations have differing needs. Poverty is obviously linked to the politics of those nations — whether they have democratic and stable institutions. Beyond supporting those institutions, what else can the West do to help?Dr. Jha said we could assist in funding the development of drugs and diagnostic tests for diseases threatening poorer countries to a greater extent than wealthier ones, such as tuberculosis. He said helping fund the expansion of health care workers was another worthy priority: “Most developing countries have few public health officials and no programs to train them.”Dr. Sridhar concurred. “First, fund and invest in research and development of neglected diseases and conditions in order to develop better diagnostics, vaccines and treatments.” She went further: “We need to continue to support institutions like the World Health Organization and the Global Fund to fight H.I.V./AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.”She added one more item: “To manage the threat of drug-resistant infections which is already a major problem in poor countries, lobby all governments to adopt a binding United Nations agreement to regulate the use of antibiotics in humans, agriculture and the environment, particularly middle-income countries.” Such an action, of course, would help nations across the board. A sense of hopelessness can sometimes weaken efforts to help the poor. The giant strides that have been made in recent years show things are far from hopeless, and point the way toward the possibility of more progress.AdvertisementSupported byA surprising, important difference between the Green New Deal and Medicare for all.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistRight now there are two big progressive ideas out there: the Green New Deal on climate change and “Medicare for all” on health reform. Both would move U.S. policy significantly to the left. Each is sponsored by a self-proclaimed socialist: the Green New Deal by Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Medicare for all by Bernie Sanders. (Of course, neither of them is a socialist in the traditional sense.) Both ideas horrify not just conservatives but also many self-proclaimed centrists.Yet while they may seem similar if you think of everything as left versus right, they’re very different on another dimension, which you might call purity versus pragmatism. And that difference is why I believe progressives should enthusiastically embrace the G.N.D. while being much more cautious about M4A.You see, for all its sweeping ambition, the Green New Deal is arguably an exercise in pragmatism — in the proposition that the perfect is the enemy of the good.What’s the perfect in this case? Climate-policy purists are focused on the notion of a carbon tax to discourage greenhouse gas emissions, and they look down on any proposal that doesn’t put such a tax front and center.What’s wrong with a carbon tax as the centerpiece of climate policy? There are some narrow economic arguments for a broader range of public policies — for example, government support can be crucial for the development of new energy technologies.Even more important, however, is the political economy. A carbon tax would hurt significant groups of people — and not just fossil-fuel billionaires like the Koch brothers. As a result, a carbon tax on its own is the kind of eat-your-spinach policy that technocrats love but many ordinary citizens hate, as illustrated by what just happened in France, where a planned fuel tax increase was withdrawn in the face of furious “Yellow Vest” protests.So how do you make climate action politically feasible? The G.N.D. answer is to bundle measures to reduce emissions with a lot of other stuff people want, like big public investment even in areas with only weak direct relationships to climate change. You could call the G.N.D. a proposal for economic transformation that includes climate action. But you could also call it a “Christmas tree,” the traditional term for legislation festooned with lots of riders unrelated to the ostensible purpose in order to win political support.The point is that climate action probably won’t happen unless it’s a Christmas tree — and the G.N.D.’s advocates are O.K. with that. In that sense, they’re pragmatists despite their big ambitions.Medicare for all, by contrast, is an exercise in the proposition that we must not settle for anything less than the ideal.Indeed, Sanders has explicitly refused to support Nancy Pelosi’s proposal to enhance Obamacare, even though her proposal would expand health insurance coverage to millions of Americans and make it more affordable for millions more. His reasoning seems to be that making things better, even as an interim step, would undermine support for a more radical transformation.To be fair, the simplicity of the pure single-payer, government insurance system Sanders advocates would have some advantages over the hybrid public-private systems that have been proposed by other progressives — for example, letting people keep private insurance if they want, but offering the option of Medicare buy-in. You might say that single-payer is the system technocrats would choose if they had a free hand, with few political constraints. In fact, that’s pretty much what happened in Taiwan, which asked a panel of experts to design its health care system, and ended up with single-payer.On the other hand, international experience shows that universal coverage and high quality health care can be achieved in a variety of ways; technocrats may prefer single-payer, but it’s not essential.And the political obstacles to a Sanders-type plan are formidable. Almost 180 million Americans are covered by private health insurance, and many of them are satisfied with their coverage. Polling suggests that while the public reacts favorably to the slogan “Medicare for all,” that support drops precipitously when people are informed that it would eliminate private insurance and require substantial tax increases.The Sanders view, however, is that a sufficiently determined leader can overcome these doubts and persuade many voters who are currently doing O.K. that radical change is nonetheless in their interests. I don’t know of anything in recent history to justify this belief, but there it is.My guess is that if Sanders does make it to the White House, he’ll quickly find that he can’t deliver on his grand vision, and will eventually try for a less purist alternative. And let’s be clear: A lot more Americans will have affordable health care if any Democrat is elected than they will if Donald Trump retains the White House.Still, it’s important to realize that among Democrats, purity versus pragmatism is as important an axis as left versus right. And the two big progressive ideas are on opposite ends of that axis.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Playing migrants for laughs in a speech to lobbyists and donors, President Donald Trump characterized people trying to get into the U.S. as a horde of beefy men who fake hard-luck stories so softies in the immigration system will let them in.His shtick caused plenty of amusement at the Republican Jewish Coalition event Saturday but it was a far cry from the reality of the masses at the border.The speech capped a week of unreal political rhetoric as Trump retreated on two broad fronts, the border and health care, and offered tortured explanations for doing so. He also got his family history wrong and drew a link between wind power and cancer that has not been proved.Here's a look back:IMMIGRATION:TRUMP, describing asylum seekers as "people that look like they should be fighting for the UFC (Ultimate Fighting Championship). They read a little page given by lawyers that are all over the place," coaching them to say "I am very fearful for my life. I am very worried that I will be accosted if I'm sent back home." Trump then mimics U.S. officials: "Oh, give him asylum. He's afraid. He's afraid." And he adds: "We don't love the fact that he's got tattoos on his face. That's not a good sign." — speech Saturday to the lobbying group.THE FACTS: Figures from his own administration tell a different story than Trump's mocking tale. Those coming are increasingly families and children. Among them are thousands who get a chance for a life in America because they make a compelling case that they risk persecution in their home countries.Last month, Homeland Security's immigration statistics office released its latest annual report on the flow of asylum seekers and refugees, covering 2017. Among those who came from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras and applied for asylum at the border, 56 percent were unaccompanied children. The percentage was the same the year before and higher in 2015.Altogether, Homeland Security granted the asylum applications of more than 26,500 people in 2017. Almost one-third were children. Nearly half were women. Close to two-thirds were married.Additionally, the Justice Department granted asylum to more than 10,500 people who were already in the country and made their case for refuge in their deportation hearings.___TRUMP: "If they put one foot on our territory, if they start climbing a fence and they're on the Mexico side, welcome to the United States. Think of it. It's the craziest thing." — speech Saturday.THE FACTS: It's not that simple. What is lost in Trump's rhetoric is that it is legal to come to the border and ask for asylum. As for those who sneak illegally into the U.S. and get caught, they, too, are entitled to apply for asylum.As the Homeland Security report states: "Generally, any foreign national present in the United States or arriving at a POE (port of entry) may seek asylum regardless of immigration status."Whether they ask at the border or after sneaking into the U.S., most don't get it.___TRUMP, on why he is pulling back on sealing the U.S.-Mexico border: "Because Mexico has been absolutely terrific for the last four days. They're apprehending everybody. Yesterday they apprehended 1,400 people. The day before was 1,000. And if they apprehend people at their southern border where they don't have to walk through, that's a big home run. We can handle it from there. It's really good." — remarks to reporters Friday.TRUMP: "Before that they never did anything." — remarks to reporters Thursday.THE FACTS: Trump is describing a Mexican crackdown on Central American migrants that has not materialized. He's also wrong in saying that Mexico did nothing about the problem until he threatened to close the border.Mexico markedly tightened migration controls during the Obama administration. Mexico also detained more than 30,000 foreigners in the first three months of this year, before Trump accused Mexican officials of doing "NOTHING."Mexico reports that its interception and detention of migrants from the south are "about average" in recent months. Over the first three days of April, it apprehended 1,259 foreigners — not 1,000 or more a day, as Trump claimed."There is no very substantive change," said Mexico's foreign secretary, Marcelo Ebrard. "I don't know what (Trump) was referring to."Ebrard said: "What Mexico is doing as far as the review of the southern border — well, it's the same thing it has been doing."___TRUMP: "The Flores decision is a disaster, I have to tell you. Judge Flores, whoever you may be, that decision is a disaster for our country, a disaster." — remarks at a meeting with local officials in Southern California on Friday.THE FACTS: There's no Judge Flores involved. Jenny Flores was 15-year-old native of El Salvador who was held in what her advocates said were substandard conditions in the 1980s, contending she was strip-searched in custody and housed with male adults. They launched a class-action lawsuit on behalf of migrant children in the country illegally. Her mother was a housekeeper in the U.S. who feared deportation if she picked up her daughter.The case worked its way to the Supreme Court, which sided with the government and against the girl's advocates. But the case gave rise to an agreement in 1997 setting conditions for the detention of migrant children and the codifying of those conditions in law a decade later. It generally bars the government from keeping children in immigration detention for more than 20 days and guides how they are to be treated.___HEALTH CARETRUMP: "This will be a great campaign issue. I never asked Mitch McConnell for a vote before the Election as has been incorrectly reported (as usual) in the @nytimes, but only after the Election when we take back the House etc." — tweet Wednesday.THE FACTS: That's misleading at best.A week earlier, Trump stirred expectations of an ambitious health care effort when he said that if the Supreme Court strikes down "Obamacare," ''we will have a plan that's far better." He promised "the Republican Party will become the party of great health care."But Trump soon found that the party in Congress had no appetite for yet another attempt to replace President Barack Obama's health law in the near future — nor does it have a plan."I made it clear to him that we were not going to be doing that in the Senate," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., told reporters Tuesday, describing their conversation a day earlier. "He did say, as he later tweeted, that he accepted that and that he would be developing a plan that he would take to the American people during the 2020 campaign."So Trump backed down and postponed any replacement until after an election more than 18 months away.McConnell explained to Trump that senators are open to tackling specific aspects of health care — namely, trying to lower prescription drug prices, according to a person who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss Monday's private call between the two. But Trump's promised big, new health care bill wasn't going happen with Democrats running the House.Trump told McConnell he "accepted" the situation and "would be developing a plan that he would take to the American people during the 2020 campaign," according to that person. That night, Trump tweeted as much.___TRUMP: "Republicans will always support pre-existing conditions!" — tweet Wednesday.MICK MULVANEY, acting White House chief of staff: "Every single plan that this White House has ever put forward since Donald Trump was elected covered pre-existing conditions. Every single plan that Republicans in the House voted on in the previous Congress covered pre-existing conditions. Every single plan considered by the Senate covers pre-existing conditions. The debate about pre-existing conditions is over. Both parties support them and anyone telling you anything different is lying to you for political gain." — interview March 31 on ABC's "This Week."THE FACTS: Trump and his chief of staff's sweeping statements about the GOP commitment to protect people with pre-existing medical conditions are misleading. The Republican health insurance proposals would not have protected those patients as broadly as the Obama-era law and could have led to significantly higher rates or gaps in coverage for people with chronic illnesses.The Obama health law requires insurers to take all applicants, regardless of medical history, and patients with health problems pay the same standard premiums as healthy ones. It also requires standard benefits such as pregnancy, maternity and newborn care and mental health treatment. The trade-off was that the law also mandated that everyone have insurance, including healthy people, whose premiums helped insurers cover the costs of the very sick.The GOP health overhaul plans in Congress eliminated the mandate that everyone have insurance and sought to protect people with pre-existing conditions to a degree. But the Republican legislation would have given states leeway to vary the premiums that insurers charge based on health and other factors. That might make coverage unaffordable for people with serious or pre-existing health conditions.For instance, the Republican plans would have allowed insurers to charge older people at a 5-to-1 ratio compared with young people, higher than the law's 3-to-1 ratio, and given states authority to allow insurers to use health status as a factor in setting premiums for people who have had a break in coverage and are trying to get a new individual policy.The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found the GOP plans over time would raise premiums for people with health problems because healthy people would be more likely to take their chances going uninsured.___WIND POWERTRUMP: "If you have a windmill anywhere near your house, congratulations. Your house just went down 75% of value. And they say the noise causes cancer." — remarks at Republican fundraising dinner Tuesday.THE FACTS: The sound from wind farms has not been proved to cause cancer.Trump has had it out for wind power since turbines were proposed off the coast of Scotland within sight of his golf resort near Aberdeen . He unsuccessfully fought the project. He has ascribed a variety of evils to wind power over the years, usually with scant evidence, while praising coal, a well-documented cause of health problems."The American Cancer Society is unaware of any credible evidence linking the noise from windmills to cancer," the organization said after Trump's latest remarks.While some recesses of the internet have long tried to sound alarms about "wind turbine syndrome," several studies have found no evidence of serious health issues.Trump actually misidentified his target. Wind turbines produce energy. Windmills mill grain and flummox Don Quixote .___PUERTO RICOTRUMP: "Puerto Rico got 91 Billion Dollars for the hurricane, more money than has ever been gotten for a hurricane before." — tweet Tuesday.HOGAN GIDLEY, White House spokesman: "The fact is, they have received more money than any state or territory in history for a rebuild." — interview Tuesday with MSNBC.THE FACTS: The money Puerto Rico has received for hurricane relief is nowhere close to $91 billion. Nor is the amount provided greater than for any other hurricane that has struck the U.S.According to the White House, Trump's $91 billion estimate includes about $50 billion in expected future disaster disbursements that could span decades, along with $41 billion already approved. But actual aid to Puerto Rico has flowed more slowly from federal coffers, about $11 billion so far.Even if the $91 billion figure eventually comes to fruition, it would not be the most ever provided for hurricane rebuilding efforts. Hurricane Katrina, which hit Louisiana and other Gulf Coast states in 2005, has cost the U.S government more than $120 billion.___TRUMP, on Puerto Rico: "The pols are grossly incompetent, spend the money foolishly or corruptly, & only take from USA." — tweet Tuesday.THE FACTS: Trump appears to suggest Puerto Rico is not part of the U.S. as he criticizes its territorial government for taking "from USA." He does not criticize other Americans for taking "from USA."Gidley, speaking on MSNBC, called the notion that Trump was referring to Puerto Ricans as noncitizens "absolutely ridiculous." But in the same interview Gidley had referred to Puerto Rico as "that country." When pressed about his wording, Gidley said it was a mistake and he meant to say "territory."Puerto Ricans are Americans.___TRUMP'S FATHERTRUMP, arguing that Germany should spend more on its own military budget: "I have great respect for Angela, and I have great respect for the country," he said, referring to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. "My father is German, right, was German, and born in a very wonderful place in Germany, and so I have a great feeling for Germany, but they're not paying what they should be paying." — remarks Tuesday with NATO's secretary general.THE FACTS: Trump is confusing his father and grandfather.Trump's father, Fred, was born in New York City. The president's grandfather, Friedrich, was born in Germany.Friedrich Trump immigrated to the U.S. in 1885 at the age of 16, arriving in New York before moving to the western parts of the U.S.Trump has messed up his family history in this way several times. Last year, he said both his parents were born in what became the European Union. Only his Scottish mother was.___VOTER TURNOUTDEMOCRAT BETO O'ROURKE: "The state saw young voter turnout up 500% over the last midterm election." — various campaign events in recent weeks.THE FACTS: Voter turnout by people under 30 did not jump nearly that much last year. Texas did see a large increase in those young voters, though.More than 1 million young voters cast a ballot in the 2018 midterm election, a 234% increase from the 2014 midterm elections, according to voting data from the Texas secretary of state's office.Initial reports suggested young voter turnout increased as much as 508% during early voting in Texas when compared with early voting in 2014, according to data released by a political consulting firm a week before the 2018 election.O'Rourke spokesman Chris Evans acknowledged his candidate used those figures without making the distinction that they represent an incomplete portion of early votes cast — not total turnout in the election.Overall, voter turnout in the 2018 midterm election increased 77% in Texas over 2014 totals.___CENSUSTRUMP: "Can you believe that the Radical Left Democrats want to do our new and very important Census Report without the all important Citizenship Question. Report would be meaningless and a waste of the $Billions (ridiculous) that it costs to put together!" — tweet Monday.THE FACTS: Trump's disdain for conducting the once-a-decade census without a citizenship question is not shared by his own Census Bureau researchers. Nor is it consistent with the many operations of government and business that make billions of dollars in spending decisions as well as policy decisions based on the most accurate possible count of the U.S. population.According to January 2018 calculations by the Census Bureau, adding a citizenship question to the decennial census form would cause lower response rates among noncitizens, leading to an increased cost to the government of at least $27.5 million for additional phone calls, visits to the home and other follow-up efforts to reach them. The Constitution requires a count every 10 years of "the whole number of persons in each state," long understood to include all residents of the U.S.The count goes to the heart of the U.S. political system. It's used to determine the number of seats each state has in the House and how the electoral votes that decide presidential elections are distributed. Civil rights groups and states with higher shares of immigrant populations such as California and New York cite a significant harm to the political rights of minority groups if a citizenship question in the decennial census dissuades immigrants from participating, resulting in diminished representation in the U.S. House.The census also shapes how 300 federal programs distribute more than $800 billion a year to local communities, according to an analysis by the GW Institute of Public Policy at George Washington University. Communities and businesses depend on it, as well, in deciding where to build schools, hospitals, job training centers, grocery stores and more.The GW institute's analysis of the effects of an undercount on five programs administered by the Health and Human Services Department, for instance, found that 37 states lost a median of $1,091 in the 2015 budget year for each person missed in the 2010 census.___Associated Press writers Colleen Long, Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, Michael Biesecker, Jill Colvin, Andrew Taylor and Alan Fram in Washington, Amanda Seitz in Chicago, Will Weissert in Austin, Texas, and Mark Stevenson in Mexico City contributed to this report.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Amid blowback from Capitol Hill, President Donald Trump switched gears again Wednesday, suggesting he never wanted Congress to vote to replace the Affordable Care Act until after the 2020 election.Trump's new tweets shifted his rationale for the "Obamacare" fight. First he said it was his choice to push off the health care votes. Then he said he never expected there to be any votes at all until after 2020.Trump claimed Wednesday he had never intended to reopen old wounds. But in keeping the issue at the forefront, the president put fresh attention on the GOP's long-running and thus far unsuccessful effort to end ACA."I was never planning a vote prior to the 2020 Election on the wonderful HealthCare package that some very talented people are now developing for me & the Republican Party," Trump tweeted, adding, "I never asked Mitch McConnell for a vote before the Election."That's not how congressional Republicans, including Senate Majority Leader McConnell, understood Trump's sudden shift to the issue last week.Nor did it stop Democrats from calling attention to the health care issue Wednesday.The Democratic-controlled House used a near party-line 240-186 vote to condemn the Trump administration for joining a federal lawsuit aimed at annulling former President Barack Obama's health care law. Minutes later, the House Democrats' campaign organization launched digital ads in the districts of around 40 Democrats in competitive seats, saying they'd "fought back" against GOP efforts to gut the statute's protections.The GOP's bitter internal fight over health care in 2017 remains a sore subject for the president. He often retells the story of the late Arizona Sen. John McCain's "no" vote that killed the repeal-and-replace effort. Republicans, hit hard on health care issues during the 2018 midterm election, had no plans to take up the issue again before the next one.Trump's fight was on display when he told Republican senators last week that his White House was developing a plan to replace the Obama health law. The sudden move stunned GOP leaders on Capitol Hill. While Trump wanted them to become "the party of health care," they feared it could be for all the wrong reasons if they were forced into a do-over of the tough votes.McConnell on Tuesday issued a rare public disclosure of his private counsel to the president, warning that another health care fight would be politically costly and doomed to fail now that Democrats control the House. The usually tight-lipped leader said afterward that the president agreed to shelve his health care push until after the campaign."I made it clear to him that we were not going to be doing that in the Senate," McConnell told reporters Tuesday.Facing a court deadline, Trump seized on health care last week , backing a lawsuit seeking to strike down the Affordable Care Act. Trump's motivations were as political as they were legislative, mindful that Republican unfulfilled promises to "repeal and replace" the Obama-era law stand as a glaring failure of his administration. He didn't want to cede the issue again in the 2020 campaign, according to a person familiar with the conversations who was not authorized to speak publicly."We're going to keep the presidency, and we'll vote in the best health care package we've ever had," Trump said.Trump and McConnell had not spoken for days. After Trump said last week he wanted to try again to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, McConnell faced a revolt from the ranks.McConnell explained to Trump that senators are open to tackling specific aspects of health care — namely, trying to lower prescription drug prices, according to a person who was granted anonymity to discuss the private call. But Trump's promised big, new health care bill wasn't going happen with Democrats running the House. Instead, Trump could focus on the issue during the election.Trump told McConnell he "accepted" the situation and "would be developing a plan that he would take to the American people during the 2020 campaign." That night, Trump tweeted as much.McConnell has made it clear Republicans should spend their time attacking "Medicare for All" proposals rather than revisiting the ACA debate, according to a Republican granted anonymity to discuss the private thinking.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MARCH 29, 2019

Nutritional psychiatrists are interested in the interactions between what we eat and how we feel. For someone with mild depression, they might "prescribe" this food, rich in long-chain omega-3 fatty acids:French friesOystersChocolateBeetsTrue or false? Even if you haven't worked out in years, you can gain much of the longevity benefits of exercise if you start to exercise regularly in midlife:TrueFalseOlder fathers are at increased risk of having children with:AutismSchizophreniaProblems related to premature birthAll of the aboveA federal jury ordered the chemical company Monsanto to pay a California man more than $80 million because it failed to warn that the popoular weedkiller Roundup may cause this form of cancer: LymphomaLeukemiaLung cancerBrain tumorTeenagers who lived in urban areas with polluted air were more likely to suffer from these mental health issues, a British study found:DepressionAnxietyPsychotic experiencesEating disordersRockland County, outside New York City, barred unvaccinated children from public places because of an outbreak of:MeaslesMumpsRubellaTyphoidTrue or false? Americans are having fewer heart attacks than they did 20 years ago.AdvertisementSupported byThe task force of experts recommended at-risk women seek certain types of counseling, and it cited two specific programs that have been particularly effective.By Pam BelluckAs many as one in seven women experience depression during pregnancy or in the year after giving birth. Now, for the first time, a national panel of health experts says there is a way to prevent it.Some kinds of counseling can keep some women from developing debilitating symptoms that can harm not only them but their babies, the panel reported on Tuesday. Its report amounted to a public call for health providers to seek out women with certain risk factors and guide them to counseling programs. The recommendation, by the United States Preventive Services Task Force, means that insurers will be required to cover those services — with no co-payments — under the Affordable Care Act.“We really need to find these women before they get depressed,” said Karina Davidson, a task force member and senior vice president for research for Northwell Health. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Perinatal depression, as it is called, is estimated to affect between 180,000 and 800,000 American mothers each year and up to 13 percent of women worldwide. The condition increases a woman’s risk of becoming suicidal or harming her infant, the panel reported. It also increases the likelihood that babies will be born premature or have low birth weight, and can impair a mother’s ability to bond with or care for her child. The panel reported that children of mothers who had perinatal depression have more behavior problems, cognitive difficulties and mental illness.The panel emphasized that perinatal depression is shouldn’t be confused with “baby blues” — the tears, irritability, fatigue, and anxiety that many women experience after delivery but which evaporates within 10 days.The panel evaluated research on numerous possible prevention methods, including physical activity, education, infant sleep advice, yoga, expressive writing, omega-3 fatty acids and antidepressants. Several showed some promise, including physical activity and programs in Britain and the Netherlands involving home visits by midwives or other providers. But  only counseling demonstrated enough scientific evidence of benefit.Women receiving one of two forms of counseling were 39 percent less likely than those who didn’t to develop perinatal depression. One approach involved cognitive behavioral therapy, helping women navigate their feelings and expectations to create healthy, supportive environments for their children. The other involved interpersonal therapy, including coping skills and role-playing exercises to help manage stress and relationship conflicts.“This recommendation is really important,” said Jennifer Felder, an assistant professor of psychiatry at University of California, San Francisco, who was not on the panel. “This focuses on identifying women who are at risk for depression and proactively preventing its onset, using concrete guidelines.”The panel recommended counseling for women with one or more of a broad range of risk factors, including a personal or family history of depression; recent stresses like divorce or economic strain; traumatic experiences like domestic violence; or depressive symptoms that don’t constitute a full-blown diagnosis. Others include being a single mother, a teenager, low-income, lacking a high school diploma, or having an unplanned or unwanted pregnancy, panel members said.It highlighted two specific programs, which were similarly successful, Dr. Davidson said. They counsel first-time mothers and those who already have children. They are available in Spanish and focus on low-income women, about 30 percent of whom develop perinatal depression, experts say.One program, “Mothers and Babies,” includes cognitive behavioral therapy in eight to 17 group sessions, often delivered in clinics or community health centers, primarily during pregnancy with at least two sessions postpartum.“It’s really meant to break down this idea that talking about your thoughts and behaviors is scary,” said Darius Tandon, an associate professor at Northwestern University’s Feinberg School of Medicine and principal investigator of several “Mothers and Babies” studies.  So far, health and human service agencies in over 175 counties in 21 states have been trained to implement the program. It is also being evaluated in Florida and the Midwest to see if it works when administered one-on-one by home visiting caseworkers instead of groups run by psychologists or social workers, Dr. Tandon said.The other program, “Reach Out, Stay Strong, Essentials for New Moms” or ROSE, typically delivered in four sessions during pregnancy and one postpartum, can be administered in groups or one-on-one by nurses, midwives or anyone trained to follow the manual, said Jennifer Johnson, a professor of public health at Michigan State University.So far, women in Rhode Island, Mississippi and Japan have participated, said ROSE’s creator, Caron Zlotnick, a professor of psychiatry and human behavior at Brown University. She and Dr. Johnson are testing its expansion to 90 clinics throughout the country.Karla Manica, 30, a single mother of four in Detroit, participated in “Mothers and Babies” when pregnant with her youngest, who is now 1. She said she experienced abuse as a child and in relationships, attempted suicide by drinking cleaner, lived in homeless shelters after being laid off from her job as a dementia caregiver, and has had bipolar depression.“It was good to come to the table and share,” Ms. Manica said. The counselor texted uplifting messages between sessions, and “homework assignments” to engage in stress-relieving activities were useful. When Ms. Manica learned her baby’s father had another girlfriend, she said, the group “gave me hope.”After her daughter Kathryn was born, “I was well,” Ms. Manica said. “If I hadn’t got with the Mothers and Babies, would I have been prepared, would I have gotten the confidence I have now? No.”Experts and leaders of the programs, whose curriculums and counselor training are free, said financial and other obstacles exist.“Cost is definitely still an issue,” said Dr. Tandon. He said one prenatal session costs clinics delivering the counseling $40 to $50 to provide mothers’ transportation and child care, and Medicaid doesn’t have a reimbursement code for preventive counseling, so clinics often absorb the cost of staff time to provide it.Access to counseling also can be difficult. “Especially when you’re pregnant and you have competing demands on your time and energy, or if you have a little one at home,” said Dr. Felder, who wrote an editorial about the recommendation. Offering it online or through apps may help.Even in some cases in which it doesn’t prevent depression, counseling may be beneficial, said Dr. Melissa Simon, a task force member and vice chairwoman of research at Northwestern’s Feinberg School of Medicine’s obstetrics and gynecology department. “It provides the pregnant person with education and coping strategies,” she said, and can encourage those who develop depression to seek treatment faster.Captoria Porter, 28, of Bolingbrook, Ill., who has seven children, ages 2 months to 11, experienced no depression during or after her first five pregnancies. But during her sixth, life became more tumultuous, with marital problems and the need to move in with her sister because the housing project where she was living was closing.After the birth of Myla, now 1, “I think I had symptoms of depression,” said Ms. Porter, who has worked as a telemarketer selling sanitizer dispensers. “I was really sad.”Fortunately, the pre-birth “Mothers and Babies” sessions helped her recognize signs like “you don’t want to brush your hair or you don’t want to be bothered with the baby,” she said. “I would find myself feeling that way.”Ms. Porter met twice with a community center counselor, but realized the program had already taught her the practices he recommended: “Reaching out to family and friends. Learning that I can’t control everything. Eating when the baby eats, sleeping when the baby sleeps, laying the kids down for a nap and calling it ‘me time.’”That warded off full-blown depression. “I caught it early,” she said.The panel encouraged more research on all prevention approaches. In reviewing 50 studies of various methods, it found negative effects only in the two small studies with antidepressants. One study reported instances of dizziness and drowsiness among women who took Zoloft. The other reported that more women taking Pamelor experienced constipation.“Some people have asked, ‘Why aren’t you just recommending antidepressants?’” Dr. Davidson said. “Of course, antidepressants were developed and studied for someone who has depression. We need to consider possible benefits and possible harms to parent and fetus when someone is not depressed and you’re giving them a drug to treat depression on the off-chance it prevents depression.”Beth Sanfratel, 43, a preschool teacher in Birmingham, Ala., said she wished she’d had a counseling program when pregnant with the second of three sons, Mac, now 10.“I don’t even think postpartum depression was mentioned,” she said. Several months after Mac was born, Ms. Sanfratel, usually upbeat and social, said she began having crying spells. “I was having trouble getting up and in general just being really bummed out.”Ultimately, Ms. Sanfratel, a former social worker, recognized she needed help and took antidepressants for about a year, resuming them shortly before her third son, Beau, was born in 2011.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ryan DerousseauHealth care stocks have traditionally done well during market downturns. But whether they can repeat the feat with continuing uncertainty about the future of health insurance in the United States is a big question.For one thing, in the declining stock market that began just before the fourth quarter, health care failed to hold its own. Through December, mutual funds and exchange-traded funds in the health care industry fell 14.6 percent, on average, since the market peak on Sept. 20, Morningstar said, compared with a drop of 13.3 percent for the S&P 500. And the iShares U.S. Health Care E.T.F., which tracks the Dow Jones U.S. Health Care Index, lost 10.2 percent.That’s not a performance for health care stocks that defensive-minded investors can celebrate.Health care has done well in rough periods for the market in the past, said Jean Hynes, a managing partner at Wellington Management, who runs the portfolio for the $48 billion Vanguard Health Care fund. But “it’s not cyclically immune,” she said.In a way, the sector’s current problems may stem from its multiyear outperformance before the most recent quarter. The sector went on a tear in the five years through September. The S&P 500 health care index returned 13.4 percent on an annualized basis then, beating the full S&P’s 11.6 percent gains, according to S&P Capital IQ.Why did the sector do so well in that stretch? At the most basic level, the more people use a hospital’s beds and the more drugs they need, the better off a hospital’s or pharmaceutical company’s stock will be.It’s why HCA Healthcare, one of the largest public hospital groups in the nation, has had such a strong run since the Affordable Care Act was fully put in place in 2014. More people in the United States have health insurance, and that has led to greater use of HCA’s beds.Over the five years through September, while HCA’s total hospital beds increased 11 percent, revenue rose 36 percent, and the stock rose 259.4 percent. The S&P 500 rose 73.3 percent during the same period, S&P Capital IQ said.Since the advent of the Affordable Care Act, more people have had insurance, and the amount spent on health care services rose 35 percent from 2010 through 2017. That extra money bolstered health care companies’ balance sheets.But in the last recession, while health care performed better than the overall market, it didn’t perform particularly well. Part of the reason was uncertainty surrounding the future of health insurance after the 2008 election. Passage of the Affordable Care Act provided some clarity.Uncertainty has returned. While Republicans in Congress failed to overturn the Affordable Care Act after the 2016 election, the Trump administration has tried to weaken it, and a federal judge in Texas ruled in December that the entire act was unconstitutional. That ruling has no effect while it is under appeal, but it doesn’t help the industry, because a final decision could take years, and it might go all the way to the Supreme Court. “This adds uncertainty,” Ms. Hynes said.These issues, as well as the sector’s outperformance in recent years, may make health care less of a solid performer in tough times now, but it certainly has an outstanding record.“You’re going to a doctor and buying medicine, whether it’s good or bad economically,” says Scott Wren, senior global equity strategist for Wells Fargo Investment Institute.The data shows that the industry has performed well during market struggles. According to Bank of America Merrill Lynch research, through the last six bear markets since 1973 — defined as a 20 percent or more decline from the market’s peak — when the S&P 500 experienced an average loss of 39 percent, the health care industry outperformed the S&P by 11 percent annualized.It lagged only consumer staples, energy and utilities stocks. And, according to CFRA Research, since 1946, health care has outperformed the overall market 75 percent of the time during similar downturns.During times of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to cut back on the things they don’t need. While enthusiasm for restaurant dining or a new smartphone may wane, the need for medical care continues.AdvertisementSupported byBy Niki KitsantonisATHENS — Greece’s decade-long economic crisis has taken a heavy toll: Hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost, incomes were slashed and taxes were raised. Hopes for the future were dashed.For Anna, 68, the crisis had particularly devastating consequences. Her husband, a retired bus driver, killed himself in a park two years ago at age 66 after a series of pension cuts deepened his despair.“He kept saying, ‘I’ve worked so many years. What will I have to show for it? How are we going to live?’” said Anna, who asked that her full name not be published to protect her family’s privacy. After two years of therapy, she now volunteers to help others struggling with mental health issues.Depression and suicide rates rose alarmingly during the Greek debt crisis, health experts and studies say, as the country’s creditors imposed strict austerity measures that cut wages, increased taxes and undermined the ability of health services to respond to a crisis within a crisis.“Mental health has deteriorated significantly in Greece, with depression being particularly widespread, as a result of the economic crisis,” Dunja Mijatovic, the Council of Europe’s commissioner for human rights, said in a November report. That has led to overcrowding at psychiatric hospitals and clinics and a 40 percent increase in suicides from 2010 to 2015, the report said.For those fighting the problems on the ground, the trend does not seem to be abating. The mental health organization Klimaka reported a 30 percent rise in calls to its suicide hotline last year, and a comparable rise in visits to its day center.“The financial crisis has increased people’s vulnerability to suicide,” said Kyriakos Katsadoros, Klimaka’s director. “Some even ask about euthanasia.”Suicide rates in Greece remain relatively low for Europe, with five suicides per 100,000 people compared with a regionwide average of 15.4, according to World Health Organization data for 2016, the most recent available. The rate of increase is high, however. It spiked from 3.3 per 100,000 to 5 between 2010 to 2016.The highest annual increase came in 2015, the year strikes and social upheaval reached a climax as Greece’s leftist-led government wrangled with the country’s international creditors over the terms of a third bailout.The suicide rate then dropped in 2016 and 2017, police figures show, only to rise again in the first 10 months of 2018, according to police figures that also show that suicides among those ages 22 and under more than doubled.Many suicides in Greece go unreported because of the Orthodox Church’s reluctance to provide burial services to those who take their own lives, although the church’s stance is changing, nongovernmental organizations say.The Greek Health Ministry set up a committee of mental health experts in November to prepare awareness campaigns, as well as plans to train general practitioners to better detect depression and other mental health issues. In the meantime, the health system’s struggles to address the problem are evident.At Evangelismos, one of the capital’s largest state hospitals, dozens of patients were being treated in the corridors of the psychiatric ward during a visit in April, “an unacceptable situation,” the Council of Europe’s anti-torture committee said in a report published in June.In the summer, the hospital’s workers’ union complained to a prosecutor that the clinic was accommodating twice the maximum capacity, with foldout beds set up in corridors and in doctors’ offices.“It’s like a stable,” said Dr. Ilias Sioras, president of the union, adding that people in all states — “catatonic and psychotic” — were being treated in the same space.Dromokaiteio Psychiatric Hospital in Athens is also overcrowded, with admissions up 12.3 percent in 2017 and staff members regularly staging strikes denouncing the conditions. And at Dafni, the Attica Psychiatric Hospital, which takes only very serious cases, “the impact of the economic crisis is reflected in the admissions,” said the director, Spiridoula Kalantzi, citing a 9.6 percent increase in 2017.The Council of Europe report noted that “unemployed persons, bankrupt businessmen, or parents who have no means of taking care of or feeding their children” were among new admissions to psychiatric units, most age 40 and older with no previous signs of mental illness.The Health Ministry ran a pilot program at hospitals in Athens last year aimed at ensuring all areas of the capital have at least one psychiatric hospital or clinic operating as a walk-in center at any given time, helping admissions to “stabilize” at Dafni and Dromokaiteio last year. Three new clinics opened in Greek hospitals in 2018, the ministry said, and there are plans for 16 more.In the meantime, much of the burden falls to Greece’s three main psychiatric hospitals — Dafni, Dromokaiteio, and the Psychiatric Hospital of Thessaloniki — which in addition to providing health care fills the void left by cuts to social services.“Apart from the psychiatric cases, we have social cases, too,” said Dr. Nektarios Drakonakis of Dafni. “People come, they say, ‘I don’t have a home, I don’t have papers, I don’t have relatives, I don’t have anywhere to go.’”A 2016 law providing free access to health care for uninsured patients has been an invaluable safety net, said Ms. Kalantzi, the Dafni director.“When the delirium begins, many lose control of their finances, and then lose their insurance,” she said.But the spike in demand for psychological and psychiatric help coincided with dwindling staff levels and slashed budgets. Annual state spending on mental health was halved over 2011 and 2012, and it has been trimmed further each year since then. Austerity measures required hiring freezes, even as hundreds of workers retired.“I’m on my own, I don’t have anyone under me to help me,” said Dr. Christos Tsopelas at Dafni, adding that two doctors typically treat 35 to 40 patients, and that there was a severe shortage of nurses.A nurse at a halfway house died during a night shift recently, and 12 patients were alone until the morning, he said.Volunteers like Anna do their best to fill the gaps. Theodoros Megaloeconomou, a psychiatrist and former clinic director at Dafni, works at two centers in Athens, helping all sorts of people, many unemployed or in debt.“Many just come for the medication,” he said, noting that use of antidepressants had doubled since before the crisis.Even if the Greek government manages to address weaknesses in the health care system, health experts note that the main reasons behind the mental health crisis are very much alive.“As long as there is unemployment, insecurity and debt, the products of the financial crisis, this problem will not go away,” said Dr. Sioras, the union leader. “I fear it will get worse.”Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

APRIL 5, 2019

To avoid hormone-disrupting chemicals, avoid drinking from plastic bottles labeled with this number:367All of the aboveOf the following strategies to boost brain health and possibly ward off dementia, evidence is least robust to support:  Playing so-called brain training gamesTaking a daily Ginkgo biloba supplementEating a Mediterranean-style dietGetting regular exerciseThis chamber of the heart is particularly responsive to different types of exercise:Left atriumRight atriumLeft ventricleRight ventriclePoor diets that skimp on vegetables are linked to one in five early deaths globally, a new study found. Of the following countries, premature death rates were highest in:FranceSpainPeruUnited StatesThe most rapidly spreading mosquito-borne illness in most parts of the world is:ZikaDengueMalariaChikungunyaAbout how many people die from measles around the world each year?1,20012,000120,0001.2 millionPeople with gum disease showed improvements when they ate a diet rich in:Legumes and other vegetablesNutsAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressGAZA CITY, Gaza Strip — Gaza's health ministry says Israeli troops have killed a Palestinian teenager during protests along the perimeter fence dividing Israel and Gaza.Maisara Shalouf, 15, was shot in the belly and died in northern Gaza Strip, at one of the protests along the frontier.The ministry added that 30 other Palestinians were injured, without specifying how many were hit with live fire.The weekly demonstrations, backed by Gaza's Hamas rulers, entered their second year this month. They have seen the death of 200 Palestinians and an Israeli soldier.AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareThe physical and psychological toll of brutal commutes can be considerable.By Austin FraktSometimes the seemingly small things in life can be major stressors.Nobody likes sitting in traffic, for example. According to one study, commuting is one of the least pleasant things we do. But it’s not just an annoying time waster — there’s a case that it’s a public health issue.According to analysis by the Texas A&M Transportation Institute, the average American commuter spends 42 hours per year stuck in rush-hour traffic. In the Los Angeles area, the figure is nearly twice that, equivalent to more than three days. A 2015 Los Angeles Times poll found that among residents of that city, traffic concerns exceed those pertaining to personal safety, finances or housing costs.The total cost of traffic associated with lost time and wasted fuel exceeds $100 billion per year. As time slips away, idling vehicles add pollution, which has environmental and health consequences, including contributions to climate change.  Long-term exposure to vehicle exhaust is associated with respiratory problems, especially in children. Another toll is to psychological well-being, stemming from the sense of helplessness we experience in traffic, and its unpredictability. This, too, can be quantified. One study found that to save a minute of time spent in traffic, people would trade away five minutes of any other leisure activity. Another study found that we deal better with the commuting delays that we can anticipate.Stressed-out people can take out their frustration on others. We’ve probably all experienced or seen road rage, but aggressive behavior can carry over beyond a commute. A recent analysis of Los Angeles traffic, published in the Journal of Public Economics, documented a link between congestion and domestic violence. From 2011 to 2015, the study found, extreme evening traffic on two major highways — I-5 and I-10 — increased the incidence of nighttime domestic violence by about 9 percent.What the researchers, Louis-Philippe Beland, an economist at Louisiana State University, and Daniel Brent, an economist at Penn State, mean by “extreme traffic” in their study is best explained with an example: The average evening commute along I-10 for residents of Santa Monica in their study was 45 minutes. Extreme traffic would increase this to 87 minutes. “Life stressors act as emotional cues,” Mr. Beland said. “What our work shows is that in extreme cases some people’s responses to those cues can be quite large, leading to violence.”Teaching children how to manage stress and traumatic events from a young age can be important. “Throughout life, mindfulness, healthy eating, sleeping and exercise, and hobbies that blow of steam all help,” said Rebecca Mooney, director of Melrose Alliance Against Violence, which raises awareness about domestic violence and related issues in and around Melrose, Mass.Officials are not powerless before the problems that stressful commutes can cause. Los Angeles has put in a system that charges solo drivers more to use certain lanes of the I-10 and I-110 highways during periods of heavy traffic. This encourages drivers to move their commutes to less congested times or routes. A study of congestion pricing on Seattle’s SR-520 Bridge found that drivers using the route and its alternatives were less stressed and more satisfied with their commutes after the pricing change.In addition, many states have been replacing tollbooths with electronic and cashless tolling systems like E-ZPass. More employers are allowing people to work remotely. Troubled transit systems in some cities may be partly behind an increase in car ownership in those areas, but certain West Coast cities are making sweeping expansions of their public transit systems, and many cities are adding bike lanes. Those who can walk or bike to work tend to have a double advantage. Not only do they avoid the harmful consequences of traffic, but they can also improve their health through exercise. Younger people are more likely to prefer that style of commuting, and are driving less than previous generations. There may be more good news in coming decades for those who loathe gridlock. Although self-driving cars won’t cure traffic woes on their own — the way that economics-based approaches like congestion pricing can — they may be able to reduce stress.AdvertisementSupported byThe governor of California has proposed some big ideas. Who knows whether he can pull them off, but there’s reason for hope. By Elisabeth RosenthalDr. Rosenthal was an emergency room doctor before becoming a journalist.Last week, California’s new governor, Gavin Newsom, promised to pursue a smorgasbord of changes to his state’s health care system: state negotiation of drug prices; a requirement that every Californian have health insurance; more assistance to help middle-class Californians afford it; and health care for undocumented immigrants up to age 26.The proposals fell short of the sweeping government-run single-payer plan Mr. Newsom had supported during his campaign — a system in which the state government would pay all the bills and effectively control the rates paid for services. (Many California politicians before him had flirted with such an idea, before backing off when it was estimated that it could cost $400 billion a year.) But in firing off this opening salvo, Mr. Newsom has challenged the notion that states can’t meaningfully tackle health care on their own. And he’s not alone.A day later, Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington proposed that his state offer a public plan, with rates tied to those of Medicare, to compete with private offerings. New Mexico is considering a plan that would allow any resident to buy into the state’s Medicaid program. And this month, Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York announced a plan to expand health care access to uninsured, low-income residents of the city, including undocumented immigrants.For over a decade, we’ve been waiting for Washington to solve our health care woes, with endless political wrangling and mixed results. Around 70 percent of Americans have said that health care is “in a state of crisis” or has “major problems.” Now, with Washington in total dysfunction, state and local politicians are taking up the baton.The legalization of gay marriage began in a few states and quickly became national policy. Marijuana legalization seems to be headed in the same direction. Could reforming health care follow the same trajectory?States have always cared about health care costs, but mostly insofar as they related to Medicaid, since that comes from state budgets. “The interesting new frontier is how states can use state power to change the health care system,” said Joshua Sharfstein, a vice dean at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and a former secretary of the Maryland Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. He added that the new proposals “open the conversation about using the power of the state to leverage lower prices in health care generally.”Already states have proved to be a good crucible for experimentation. Massachusetts introduced “Romneycare,” a system credited as the model for the Affordable Care Act, in 2006. It now has the lowest uninsured rate in the nation, under 4 percent. Maryland has successfully regulated hospital prices based on an “all payer” system.It remains to be seen how far the West Coast governors can take their proposals. Businesses — pharmaceutical companies, hospitals, doctors’ groups — are likely to fight every step of the way to protect their financial interests. These are powerful constituents, with lobbyists and cash to throw around.The California Hospital Association came out in full support of Mr. Newsom’s proposals to expand insurance (after all, this would be good for hospitals’ bottom lines). It offered a slightly less enthusiastic endorsement for the drug negotiation program (which is less certain to help their budgets), calling it a “welcome” development. It’s notable that his proposals didn’t directly take on hospital pricing, even though many of the state’s medical centers are notoriously expensive.Giving the state power to negotiate drug prices for the more than 13 million patients either covered by Medicaid or employed by the state is likely to yield better prices for some. But pharma is an agile adversary and may well respond by charging those with private insurance more. The governor’s plan will eventually allow some employers to join in the negotiating bloc. But how that might happen remains unclear. The proposal by Governor Inslee of Washington to tie payment under the public option plans to Medicare’s rates drew “deep concern” from the Washington State Medical Association, which called those rates “artificially low, arbitrary and subject to the political whims of Washington, D.C.”On the bright side, if Governor Newsom or Governor Inslee succeeds in making health care more affordable and accessible for all with a new model, it will probably be replicated one by one in other states. That’s why I’m hopeful.In 2004, the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation conducted an exhaustive nationwide poll to select the greatest Canadian of all time. The top-10 list included Wayne Gretzky, Alexander Graham Bell and Pierre Trudeau. No. 1 is someone most Americans have never heard of: Tommy Douglas.Tommy Douglas, a Baptist Minister and left-wing politician, was premier of Saskatchewan from 1944 to 1961. Considered the father of Canada’s health system, he arduously built up the components of universal health care in that province, even in the face of an infamous 23-day doctors’ strike. In 1962, the province implemented a single-payer program of universal, publicly funded health insurance. Within a decade, all of Canada had adopted it.The United States will presumably, sooner or later, find a model for health care that suits its values and its needs. But 2019 may be a time to look to the states for ideas rather than to the nation’s capital. Whichever state official pioneers such a system will certainly be regarded as a great American.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTRIPOLI — Fighting between forces of Libya's rival governments in the south of the capital Tripoli has killed so far at least 25 and wounded 80, a spokesman for the Tripoli-based health ministry said on Monday.AdvertisementSupported byFact CheckAt a rally in Michigan, President Trump misstated the findings of the special counsel investigation, misleadingly promised to protect patients with pre-existing conditions and falsely described funding for a restoration program for the Great Lakes. By Linda QiuWhat Mr. Trump Said“By the way, we’re bringing a lot of those car companies back.” Mr. Trump’s claims of a “decimated” automobile industry before he took office and its revitalization since are not rooted in fact. Employment in the auto industry declined during the Great Recession, but has been steadily increasing since mid-2009. Similarly, domestic auto production increased during the economic recovery before declining in mid-2016, while domestic new car sales grew for seven straight years until 2017. His examples of the auto companies “pouring” into Michigan and other Midwestern states were a $4.5 billion investment in Detroit by Fiat Chrysler, a $1 billion investment by Ford in Chicago, and a $300 million investment in Michigan by General Motors. Chrysler’s plans would reopen a car plant, while Ford and G.M. are increasing production capacity at existing plants. In contrast, G.M. said it would idle five car factories in Ohio, Michigan, Maryland and Canada while Chrysler is cutting jobs at an Illinois plant. According to the Reshoring Initiative, a group that encourages companies to move back to the United States, announcements to increase investment or move companies back to the United States peaked in 2016. What Mr. Trump Said“The special counsel completed its report and found no collusion and no obstruction. … Total exoneration, complete vindication.”While the investigation led by Robert S. Mueller III did not conclude that Mr. Trump or his campaign coordinated with Russia, according to a summary of Mr. Mueller’s report by Attorney General William P. Barr, the special counsel stopped short of absolving Mr. Trump on obstruction.Mr. Barr quoted the special counsel as stating that “while this report does not conclude that the President committed a crime, it also does not exonerate him,” and wrote that Mr. Mueller did not draw conclusions about whether Mr. Trump’s conduct amounted to obstruction of justice.What Mr. Trump Said“I’m going to get, in honor of my friends, full funding of $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which you have been trying to get for over 30 years.”The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, a program for restoring the ecosystem of the Great Lakes, was first implemented by the Obama administration in 2010. Federal funding ranged from nearly $300 million to $450 million every year under Mr. Obama.Mr. Trump requested no funding at all for the initiative in his 2018 budget request, effectively eliminating the program, though Congress ended up appropriating nearly $300 million. His latest budget proposes a 90 percent cut to the program, reducing funding to $30 million.What Mr. Trump Said“The deductibles on Obamacare are so high, on average $7,000.”An analysis from the Kaiser Family Foundation found that average deductibles for plans offered on the federal marketplace in 2019 greatly varied based on the type and tier of plan and the income of the enrollee.Of plans that included both prescription drugs and medical spending in the deductible, those in the bronze tier (which have lower premiums but higher out of pocket costs) had the highest average deductible, at $6,259, while platinum plans had the lowest, at $48.For silver-tiered plans, the most common choice, the average deductible was $4,375. For consumers whose incomes fell below 250 percent of the federal poverty line, deductibles ranged from $239 to $3,169 after cost-sharing reductions.What Mr. Trump Said“We will always protect patients with pre-existing conditions.”Currently, Mr. Trump’s administration is seeking to eliminate the Affordable Care Act in court, including provisions that protect people with pre-existing conditions. In 2017, Mr. Trump also backed several bills to repeal the health care law, some of which would have also undermined protections for pre-existing conditions.In his budget, Mr. Trump renewed his call to repeal the law and instead called for the enactment of legislation similar to a 2017 bill sponsored by Republican Senators Lindsey Graham of South Carolina and Bill Cassidy of Louisiana. That bill prohibits insurers from denying coverage to patients with pre-existing conditions, but it does permit states to obtain waivers that allow insurers to charge more based on health status.OTHER CLAIMSMr. Trump also repeated more than a dozen claims The Times has previously fact-checked:He misstated the results of the Electoral College in the 2016 election as 306 votes to 223 votes. (He won 306 to Hillary Clinton’s 232, though after defections by electors, the count was 304 to 227.)He falsely claimed that wages were rising for the first time “after years of stagnation.” (Wages began rising under Mr. Obama.)He claimed “we did really well with women” in the 2016 election. (Exit polls indicate that just 42 percent of women voted for him, which was less than for Mrs. Clinton and the two Republican nominees who preceded him.)He claimed that the United States had become the largest oil and gas producer in the world “very recently.” (This has been the case since 2013.)He falsely said his tax cuts are “the biggest in the history of our country.” (Several others are larger.)He exaggerated when he claimed to have eliminated the estate tax. (The 2017 tax law increased the threshold, but did not eliminate it.)He misleadingly claimed to have passed Veterans’ Choice after 40 years of failed efforts. (He signed reforms to the health care program, but it has existed since 2014.) He falsely claimed “you couldn’t fire anybody” from the Department of Veterans Affairs before he signed V.A. Accountability into law. (He signed a law that would make it easier to remove bad employees, but the department had been able to fire people before.)He said the Green New Deal calls for “no more airplanes, no more cows, one car per family.” (A now-deleted summary of the plan did refer to eliminating cows and air travel, but the legislation itself does not.)He falsely claimed that other countries “are giving us their worst people “ through the diversity visa program. (Applicants enter of their own volition, and must pass background checks that bar criminals and the indigent.)He exaggerated the United States’ trade deficit with Mexico as $100 billion per year over the last several years. (It was $78 billion in 2018, up from $69 billion in 2017 and $62 billion in 2016.)He claimed Immigration and Customs Enforcement made “266,000 arrests of criminal aliens” including those who had committed murders, sexual assaults and kidnapping. (The most common offenses were immigration, traffic and drug violations.)He misleading accused Democrats of allowing for the execution of newborn infants. (Infants are rarely born alive after abortion procedures, and if they are, doctors do not kill them.)AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________• President Trump backed off plans to introduce a Republican replacement for the Affordable Care Act after Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, warned him that the Senate would not revisit health care before the election. The about-face all but ensured that health care would take a central place in the 2020 campaign, elevating an issue that Democrats consider one of their strengths.• Two more women told The Times that Joseph R. Biden Jr. touched them in ways that made them uncomfortable, more evidence that the former vice president’s style of politicking is proving to be a liability in the #MeToo era.• Despite calls for the resignations of Virginia’s governor, lieutenant governor and attorney general over scandals involving blackface and sexual harassment, they are all still in office — and the state is trying to muddle on.• Mr. Trump repeated his threat to shut the border if Mexico cannot restrict a flow of asylum seekers trying to cross into the United States. The president’s economic team said it was looking for ways to limit the damage from such a move.• Mr. Trump has vowed to cut aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador over migration. But the cuts could hurt the very programs designed to encourage people to stay.• The president again lashed out at local lawmakers in Puerto Rico, which was devastated by a hurricane in September 2017. He was reacting after the Senate blocked billions of dollars in disaster aid for Midwestern states, in part because Democrats said a proposed $600 million in nutritional assistance to Puerto Rico fell short of its needs.• Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary general, sat very stiffly next to Mr. Trump on Tuesday, two days before the 70th anniversary of the alliance, as the president criticized German military spending and predicted the United States would get along with Russia.• Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont raised $18.2 million over the first six weeks of his presidential bid, in a display of financial strength that cements his status as one of the top fund-raisers in the sprawling Democratic field.• Chicago became the largest American city ever to elect a black woman as its mayor as voters on Tuesday chose Lori Lightfoot, a former prosecutor, in a runoff election. She will also be the city’s first openly gay mayor.• Faced with division within their caucus, House Democrats opted out of presenting a budget deal. They instead unveiled a bill that would increase military and domestic spending by more than $350 billion over the next two years.• The federal authorities have arrested a 32-year-old Chinese woman who tried to enter Mar-a-Lago over the weekend. She was carrying four cellphones and a thumb drive infected with malware._____________________Today’s On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grullón Paz in New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — Consumers who use expensive brand-name prescription drugs when cheaper alternatives are available could face higher costs under a new policy being proposed by the Trump administration.The proposal, to be published this week in the Federal Register, would apply to health insurance plans sold under the Affordable Care Act.Health plans have annual limits on consumers’ out-of-pocket costs. Under the proposal, insurers would not have to count the full amount of a consumer’s co-payment for a brand-name drug toward the annual limit on cost-sharing. Insurers would have to count only the smaller amount that would be charged for a generic version of the drug.For example, if a consumer filled a doctor’s prescription for a brand-name drug with a $25 co-payment, rather than using a generic medicine with a $5 co-payment, the consumer might get credit for only $5 in out-of-pocket spending. Consumers would have to spend more of their own money before reaching the annual limit on out-of-pocket costs.In addition, insurers would not have to count the value of coupons and other financial assistance provided to consumers by drug manufacturers if generic alternatives were available. This change could significantly increase consumers’ out-of-pocket costs for some of the more expensive prescription drugs and has prompted protests from groups representing patients.President Trump has repeatedly vowed to reduce drug prices and to lower out-of-pocket drug costs. But for some consumers, the latest proposal could have the opposite effect.The proposal highlights a potential conflict between patients with a particular disease, who may benefit from the use of coupons, and other consumers more generally. Economists say that coupons can raise health care costs by encouraging people to use more expensive drugs.“The availability of a coupon may cause physicians and beneficiaries to choose an expensive brand-name drug when a less expensive and equally effective generic or other alternative is available,” the Trump administration said in explaining its proposal. “When consumers are relieved of co-payment obligations, manufacturers are relieved of a market constraint on drug prices.”Moreover, it said, “coupons can add significant long-term costs to the health care system that may outweigh the short-term benefits.”But Bari Talente, an executive vice president of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, said, “Many people with M.S. rely on co-pay assistance, even for generic medications.”In the last few years, she said, generic versions of the drug Copaxone have become available, but even they have high prices. One of the generic medicines costs $60,000 to $65,000 a year, she said.Carl E. Schmid II, the deputy executive director of the AIDS Institute, a public policy and advocacy organization, said the administration’s proposal could sharply increase out-of-pocket costs, so that a consumer who now pays virtually nothing might have to pay $3,500 a year or more for a drug to treat H.I.V.“That increases the likelihood that people won’t pick up their drugs, won’t take their drugs,” Mr. Schmid said.Leyla Mansour-Cole, the policy director of the Diabetes Patient Advocacy Coalition, a nonprofit group, said the Trump administration proposal “caused trepidation” for some patients.“In theory, co-pay coupons could encourage people to take higher-priced drugs,” Ms. Mansour-Cole said. “In reality, people use them to get the medicines that their doctors prescribe, despite astronomically high deductibles.”The administration is proposing several other changes that could increase costs for consumers.Under the proposal, fewer people would qualify for federal subsidies, and those who qualify could be required to spend a larger share of their income on insurance premiums.In addition, the proposal could lead to a small increase in out-of-pocket costs, which include co-payments and deductibles for doctors’ services and hospital care.The changes would result from a new method of calculating inflation in health insurance prices — a factor used in computing the amount of premium subsidies and the annual limit on consumers’ out-of-pocket costs.The Trump administration estimated that the changes would save the government $900 million annually in subsidies in 2020 and 2021 and $1 billion a year in 2022 and 2023. In addition, it predicted that 100,000 fewer people would have coverage through the insurance exchanges created under the Affordable Care Act.The administration said that some of the 100,000 people might buy short-term insurance policies, which do not have to cover pre-existing conditions or provide all the benefits required by the health law. But, it said, most are “likely to become uninsured.”Either way, the administration said, “these individuals will be bearing a larger share of the costs of their own health care consumption.”The proposed rule may reduce federal spending and the need to collect taxes in the future, the administration said. “However,” it added, “the increased number of uninsured may increase federal and state uncompensated care costs.”The administration estimated that premiums — after subsidies, in the form of tax credits — would be 1 percent higher as a result of its proposal.The limit on out-of-pocket costs is already high; a consumer can be required to spend as much as $7,900 a year. Under the formula now in use, the limit would rise to $8,000 next year. Under the Trump administration proposal, it would increase to $8,200.Administration officials said their proposal would more accurately measure insurance price inflation. But Democrats refused to accept that explanation, noting that Mr. Trump had tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act during his entire first year in office.Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the senior Democrat on the Finance Committee, described the new proposed rule as “Trump’s latest attempt to sabotage health care.”The Trump administration is also proposing a new requirement to increase the number of health insurance plans that omit coverage of abortion services.AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew JacobsHappy 10 Minutes, a Chinese government campaign that encouraged schoolchildren to exercise for 10 minutes a day, would seem a laudable step toward improving public health in a nation struggling with alarming rates of childhood obesity.But the initiative and other official Chinese efforts that emphasized exercise as the best way to lose weight were notable for what they didn’t mention: the importance of cutting back on the calorie-laden junk foods and sugary beverages that have become ubiquitous in the world’s second largest economy.China’s fitness-is-best message, as it happens, has largely been the handiwork of Coca-Cola and other Western food and beverage giants, according to a pair of new studies that document how those companies have helped shape decades of Chinese science and public policy on obesity and diet-related illnesses like Type 2 diabetes and hypertension.The findings, published Wednesday in The BMJ and The Journal of Public Health Policy, show how Coca-Cola and other multinational food companies, operating through a group called the International Life Sciences Institute, cultivated key Chinese officials in an effort to stave off the growing movement for food regulation and soda taxes that has been sweeping the west.The group, known as ILSI, is a worldwide organization with a Washington headquarters, funded by many of the biggest names in snack foods, including Nestlé, McDonald’s, Pepsi Co. and Yum! Brands as well as Coca-Cola. It has 17 branches, most of them in emerging economies like Mexico, India, South Africa and Brazil, and promotes itself as a bridge between scientists, government officials and multinational food companies.But in China, ILSI is so well-placed that it runs its operations from inside the government’s Centre for Disease Control and Prevention in Beijing. In fact, when asked to comment on the studies, the ministry emailed a statement not from a government official but from ILSI’s China director.The director, Chen Junshi, said that the group had always emphasized the importance of both exercise and a well-balanced diet, and that its activities “are based on science and are not affected by any business.”The close relationship with the highest government health policymakers goes significantly beyond what the companies have been able to achieve in the West.Coca-Cola tried similar tactics in the United States by partnering with influential scientists and creating a nonprofit called the Global Energy Balance Network to promote a message that exercise, not dieting, was the solution to the nation’s obesity crisis. But in 2015, after an article in The New York Times on the efforts and subsequent outcry from public health advocates, the company  disbanded the organization.[Read our article that revealed Coke was behind the group.]In China, beginning in the late 1990s, ILSI organized obesity conferences, paid the way of Chinese scientists who attended the events and helped create national health campaigns aimed at tackling the country’s obesity epidemic, according to Susan Greenhalgh, a social scientist and China expert at Harvard who is the author of both studies.China’s public health initiatives almost always promote exercise, and they seldom mention the value of cutting calories or reducing the consumption of processed food and sugar-sweetened beverages, which many experts say is essential for losing weight, keeping it off, and improving health.“You can’t use physical activity alone to get rid of obesity, hypertension or diabetes,” said Barry Popkin, a professor of nutrition at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.Professor Popkin was not involved in the study, but he has spent decades working in China to help the country develop nutrition guidelines and food policy — efforts he said were often thwarted by well-placed officials aligned with ILSI.Given his experience, he said Professor Greenhalgh’s findings were not surprising. “Over the course of several decades, Coke and ILSI have worked to prevent any kind of food policy that would benefit public health,” he said. “What they’ve been doing in China is insidious.”In a statement, ILSI said it was committed to backing “evidence-based food and nutrition research” and that it did not conduct lobbying activities or make policy recommendations in the countries where it operates.“ILSI does not profess to have been perfect in our 40-year history,” the statement said. “Not surprisingly, there have been bumps along the way. This is why ILSI has analyzed best practices and has committed to ensuring scientific integrity in nutrition and food sector research.”Coca-Cola said in a statement that it had also been changing the way it funded scientific research through greater transparency and by ending its practice of providing the lion’s share of money for studies. In recent years, it added, Coca-Cola has sought to address mounting obesity in China by offering an array of new sugar-free beverages and through improved nutrition labeling on products. “We recognize that too much sugar isn’t good for anyone,” it said.Professor Greenhalgh’s findings were based on interviews with Chinese officials and scientists, and a review of public documents produced by Coca-Cola and ILSI.She said the industry efforts have been wildly successful, in part because China lacks a free media or watchdog organizations that might have been critical of the relationship.In just a few decades, China has gone from a nation plagued by food shortages to one buffeted by soaring obesity and chronic diseases tied to poor diet. More than 42 percent of adults in China are overweight or obese, according to Chinese researchers, more than double the rate in 1991. In Chinese cities, nearly a fifth of all children are obese, according to government surveys.The increases closely follow growing prosperity in China that began in the 1980s as Beijing embraced market economics after decades of isolation. In 1978, Coca-Cola was among the first companies allowed into the country, and ILSI arrived soon afterward. Seeking to identify influential scientists it could work with, the group found a partner in Chen Chunming, a leading nutritionist who was the founding president of the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine, the forerunner of China’s C.D.C.In 1993, Ms. Chen became the head of ILSA-China and she remained a senior adviser to the organization until her death last year. Professors Greenhalgh and Popkin said that Ms. Chen was instrumental in stymying attempts to address soaring obesity by stressing the harmful impact of consuming highly processed food and sugary soft drinks.In interviews, several Chinese nutrition experts said they were not bothered by the relationship between ILSI and multinational beverage companies like Coca-Cola, and they defended the integrity of ILSI-backed researchers, praising their professional bona fides. He Jiguo, a nutrition professor at the College of Food Science and Nutritional Engineering at China Agricultural University, said that Coca-Cola had only amplified the notion that exercise is essential to human health, an idea long espoused by China’s ruling Communist Party.“The key is that no matter what Cola-Cola or other beverage companies say, these drinks are just a product,” he said. “No one is being forced to buy them.”With sweetened beverage consumption dropping in the United States and Europe, Coca-Cola increasingly views China and other developing countries as essential to maintaining profits. China is the company’s third largest market.Martin McKee, professor of European public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, said ILSI and other industry-funded groups that represent the interests of the tobacco, alcohol and fast-food companies have found fertile ground in poorer nations with weak public health bureaucracies.Professor McKee, who wrote an editorial in the BMJ that accompanies the study, said such groups often claim to be independent think tanks but refuse to disclose detailed information about their funding.These groups, he said, support and publicize scientific studies whose results sometimes muddy the waters on contentious issues like smoking or alcohol and soda consumption.

      Interview by DAVID MARCHESE

APRIL 15, 2019

“‘Let’s create the next thing that tracks my dog’ — that’s fun and nice, but come on, there are people dying.”
Melinda Gates on tech innovation, global health and her own privilege.You would perhaps be demonstrating an excess of sympathy to feel sorry for ultrawealthy philanthropists. But it’s fair to say that many members of that cohort have found themselves in a challenging moment, faced as they are with increasing anti-elitism and skepticism about just how much altruism, as opposed to ideological self-interest, motivates their work. “There are absolutely different points of view about philanthropy,” says Melinda Gates, who, along with her husband Bill, heads the charitable foundation that bears their name, aimed at increasing global health and reducing poverty. Its endowment, at $50.7 billion, is the largest in the world. “But we’re lucky to live in a democracy, where we can all envision what we want things to look like.” In that regard, Gates’s focus, both here and abroad, is on broadening women’s rights, a subject she explores in her new book, “The Moment of Lift.” “I have rage,” she said, about the injustices she has seen. “It’s up to me to metabolize that and use it to fuel my work.”When you meet with other wealthy philanthropists, do you find that anyone is grappling in a serious way with their own culpability for problems, like growing income inequality, that are at the root of issues they’re trying to solve? There are absolutely people thinking about this. Then there are others who, no, they’re comfortable with how they act. But one of the reasons the Giving Pledge1 has been so important is that in some countries — in India, in China — we’re starting the discussion about philanthropy. I will say that of the 190 people2 who have joined the Giving Pledge so far, some of them joined because it looks good. But I’m stunned by how many visits we’re hosting at the foundation now with philanthropists — not even billionaires, millionaires — asking us: How did you think about philanthropy? How did you do it?When you’re in Giving Pledge meetings, would it ever fly to ask people not just to give more but to take less? Look, there are going to be lots of points of view in the room about that topic. But I think you frame it as: What do we want for our democracy? How do we want the country to look and act and be 50 and 100 years from now? I will tell you that many people in that room want better outcomes for low-income people in this country. They want to see things get better.One of the recurring criticisms of large-scale philanthropists is that they aren’t interested in any redress of the economic systems that create inequality. But in order to rectify inequalities, doesn’t a radical rethinking need to happen? Bill and I are both on the record saying that we believe in more progressive taxes. We believe in an estate tax. We don’t believe in enormous inherited wealth.3 There are certain places where Bill and I sit where that is not a popular idea. Bill will be the first person to tell you, and Warren Buffett4 will be the second, that they could not have done what they did without having grown up in the United States, benefiting from the United States education system, benefiting from the infrastructure that exists here to build a business. If they had grown up in — pick your favorite place — Senegal, they couldn’t have started their businesses. There’s no way. So they have benefited. But we do need to think about how we right some of these inequities. How do we open our networks of power for women and people of color? We have to think about our privilege. I have to think about my privilege every day.What’s a recent epiphany you’ve had about your privilege? That it’s not enough to read about it. You have to be in the community with people who don’t look like you. When I read about a shooting, maybe in the south side of Seattle, I’m not living the experience. Whereas if I have a friend who’s a person of color, they most likely are living that experience or know somebody who was part of that community. And so my youngest daughter and I — she has a lot of friends whom I’m meeting, and they’re of very mixed races, I love that — have this motto that we go by: Every single person who walks through our door should feel comfortable in our house, despite how large it is and that it has nice art. And, believe me, there are people who show up at my front door who are not that comfortable. So sometimes that means sitting down inside the front door with our dog — and I’m in my yoga pants, no makeup on — and petting the dog until they’re comfortable being there. And only if we’ve made them comfortable can we be in real community. I have to do more to break down those barriers. It is very hard for almost anybody to show up at my front door.For a variety of reasons. Think about anybody showing up, and they’re like, I’ve got to sit at dinner with Bill Gates. That’s terrifying for some kids. Particularly if they’re dating my daughter.I know you and Bill watch “The Crown” together. What else do you guys watch? Oh, my gosh, we love “This is Us.” And our friends tease us about this: We were really late coming to “Friday Night Lights.” Now we’re watching “A Million Little Things” — love it. And “Silicon Valley” — that’s total mind candy.What’s something about the tech world right now that drives you crazy? One thing that does bug me is that, even for the big world problems Bill and I are talking about, sometimes the tech world thinks the solution is to give somebody an app. Well, that’s not going to change everything. I would also love to see more tech innovation on behalf of the world. “Let’s create the next thing that tracks my dog” — that’s fun and nice, but come on, there are people dying.You tell some personal stories in your book, and those stories share space with the stories of women who have gone through truly horrific things: genital mutilation, or a mother who felt compelled to try and give you her child, so the kid would have a chance at a better life. Was it hard to figure out how to have experiences so different from your own coexist in the same book? It seems to me that the generous way of looking at it would be to say that your book is giving these other women’s stories a platform. The less generous interpretation would be that by putting your story in the same book as other, harsher stories, you’re conflating fundamentally unequal situations. One of the things I write about in the book is that I’ve been in an abusive relationship. I didn’t spend a lot of time on that, but I’ve never talked about it publicly before. It killed my voice and my self-esteem for years. That, to me, is not that different than women in the developing world who lose their voice or have no decision-making power. Certainly I don’t have the experience, thank God, of female genital cutting, and I have not lost a child, but I have been very close to two people’s deaths, where the family let me walk death with them. And, being a mom, I have some understanding of how horrible it would be to lose a child. I think those stories are universal. We don’t have to live everyone’s experience. We just have to have enough empathy to understand how heartbreaking that would be and to say, “Let’s change this.” So I want people to be able to empathize with whichever stories reach them, then turn it back and say, “O.K., what can I do?”Can you talk a little more about the decision to include the material about your relationship? It’s only very briefly and vaguely mentioned, which I assume has to do with the understandable discomfort you felt divulging something like that. That was a big decision for me. I mean, huge. It has only been in the last few years that I’ve even started to tell people close to me. But when I was writing this book I thought, I have to tell this. And the reason is so few people understand how many women have been through this. The number who have been abused is unbelievable. It affects a woman’s self-confidence. There can be shame or guilt. And so for me, the profound effect on how I saw myself and where I wouldn’t use my voice — I felt it was important to tell that in the book so that people would understand, yes, this can happen to anyone. And what I chose to include was another very purposeful decision. That person is still alive. That person has a mother and father. That person has two sisters and other family members. So I thought it was important for me to share exactly what I shared and no more. That’s not an easy topic for any of us.How have the political shifts of the last few years — toward populism especially — affected the Gates Foundation? It’s a much tougher political environment because of the polarization and things being said or enacted by the administration. But luckily, the president proposes a budget, and Congress disburses the money. So we are working with Congress more than ever. The people who have been there for a while understand that if you want peace and stability in the world, you put money into foreign aid.Speaking of the president, you never use his name in your book. You only ever refer to “the administration.” How come? I want this book to be timeless in terms of women’s stories — where we are now and where we might go in the future. So even if it had been somebody else in office, I probably wouldn’t have put their name in the book.5I’m curious about how you decide which strategies you use to try to accomplish your goals. You’re a huge supporter of family planning, but you never explicitly work to get politicians who, say, want to repeal Roe v. Wade voted out of office. Why not? I have to think about where my voice will help the conversation and where will it hurt. So for today, I have chosen to raise my voice in favor of contraceptives. There are over 200 million women who don’t have them, and it would change their life to have them. They are the greatest antipoverty tool that exists. The minute I speak out, which I may do someday, about where I am on Roe v. Wade, I will be cast into one bucket, and if people disagree with me on that issue, it will be harder for me to build this global coalition for women and their families who don’t have access to contraceptives. I don’t want to damage that. I’m not sure I need to step into the zeitgeist of what’s going on in the United States. I am looking at the long game.You don’t think you’ve already been cast into a certain bucket by people who disagree with your stance on, say, family planning? I hope not. I’m a very independent voter. Some years I’ve voted Republican for president, some years I’ve voted Democrat. Part of the reason I don’t fund candidates superstrongly, with millions of dollars for one issue or another, is that no members of Congress are the same. One might be for foreign aid and against contraceptives. I’m always looking for the common ground.I was reading the foreword that you and Bill wrote to Peter Singer’s book,6 and it reminded me of a question Singer once asked, which was to what extent Bill Gates can talk about a moral belief in the equal value of human life while living in a $100 million home. So how do you two determine what a moral expenditure is? We certainly spend money on ourselves. You see it in the house that we built.7 We won’t have that house forever, though. I’m actually really looking forward to the day that Bill and I live in a 1,500-square foot house. Anyway, just to be clear, the house was being built before I came on the scene. But I take responsibility for it. We’ve already put a certain amount of money in it; we live in a nice place. But we think about expenditures. We think about, O.K., $1,000 we spend on ourselves or our kids is $1,000 we’re not spending on somebody somewhere else in the world. I know we don’t always get it right, but we do think about the world’s resources and our resources. Here’s a tiny example: Up until a couple years ago we were using plastic water bottles all over our house. My piece is like an infinitesimal drop in the bucket on climate change, but it’s like, hey, we have clean-running-water faucets all over the house; we can pour our own thing of water. So we try to live those values as much as we can and do the best we can. But the one thing that I want to be really clear is that a vast majority of the huge funds that we have, these billions of dollars, they are going back to society.8When do you think you’ll move to a smaller house? I wish I knew! We’ll make some lifestyle changes for sure when our last daughter goes off to college, which is in a few years. With the foundation in Seattle, we will be here for at least six months out of the year. But I assure you, if we decide to spend six months somewhere else it will be in a smaller house.To get back to philanthropy: What about the notion that the foundation’s work on an issue like public education is inherently antidemocratic? You’ve spent money in that area in a way that maybe seems like it’s crowding out people’s actual wants in that area. What’s your counter to that criticism? Bill and I always go back to “What is philanthropy’s role?” It is to be catalytic. It’s to try and put new ideas forward and test them and see if they work. If you can convince government to scale up, that is how you have success. But philanthropic dollars are a tiny slice of the United States education budget. Even if we put a billion dollars in the State of California, that’s not going to do that much. So we experiment with things.9 If we had been successful, David, you’d see a lot more charter schools. I’d love to see 20 percent charter schools in every state. But we haven’t been successful. I’d love to say we had outsize influence. We don’t.Certainly you have more influence than, say, a group of parents. Not necessarily. I went and met with a group of three dozen parents in Memphis. We thought we had a good idea for them. They were having none of it. So we didn’t move forward. A group of parents, a group of teachers, they can have a very large influence.In terms of the work you’re doing right now — as a person, a human being — what keeps you up at night? Contraceptives. Reproductive health. Any time I see anything in the United States that looks like we’re rolling back women’s health, I’m thinking, What communities does that affect in the United States, and whom does it affect disproportionately? Then I worry even more, to be honest, about what the repercussions are going to be on foreign aid in the dollars that we spend in other countries. Because, boy, do I see the difference contraceptives make there.You’re not thinking about more microlevel stuff late at night? No. I’m thinking about contraceptives, where we’re helping lead internationally. In the United States, when something changes, people are going to stand up. But my role is to make sure that I’m advocating on behalf of, for example, women in Kenya. United States funding of reproductive health rights affects those women. So I have to think macro. I have to.David Marchese is the Magazine’s Talk columnist.This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity from two conversations.April 8, 2019April 1, 2019Advertisement

      By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

FEB. 1, 2019

Last month, the DNA-testing company 23andMe secured Food and Drug Administration approval for a new screening for gene-based health risks. Along with celiac disease, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, breast cancer and several other medical conditions, the company can now screen clients for two mutations that have been linked to colorectal cancer.But “F.D.A.-approved” does not necessarily mean “clinically useful.” 23andMe relies on much simpler technology than tests that you’d get at your doctor’s office. As a result, the company’s tests cannot tell you much about your actual risk of developing the diseases in question.Here’s how those tests work — and why you should interpret them with caution.
          You can think of your genes as long text documents. The words are your genetic code. Genetic mutations are like typos — imperfections that scientists can spot with some scrutiny.
        
          DNA tests are scientists’ way of proofreading your genes — which they accomplish by comparing them against a gene that’s considered healthy.
        
          Genetic tests search for specific anomalies that have been linked to a higher risk for a given disease. Breast cancer, for example, is sometimes linked to errors in a gene known as BRCA. Some of these errors sharply increase a woman’s risk of developing the disease. But other errors in the BRCA gene  increase the risk of getting breast cancer by only a small amount.
        
          Instead of examining the entire BRCA gene, 23andMe’s breast cancer screen looks at just a handful of places in the gene where mutations are known to appear. That’s like proofreading a document by looking at only a handful of letters.
        
          The particular BRCA mutations that 23andMe tests for are rare: Just two out of 100 women with Ashkenazi Jewish heritage have them, and just one out of 1,000 women in the rest of the population have them.
        
          Meanwhile, there are more than 1,000 other BRCA mutations that contribute to your breast cancer risk. The 23andMe test doesn’t look for any of them.
        That makes it difficult to draw conclusions from the 23andMe BRCA test. Just because you test negative for the few mutations that 23andMe screens for doesn’t mean that you won’t get breast cancer. It doesn’t even mean that you won’t get breast cancer caused by a BRCA mutation.There are more comprehensive BRCA tests on the market. They require a doctor’s prescription, but they are much more useful, because they look at the entire gene. That means they give you a much better picture of the role that this gene might play in your overall cancer risk.World Population11 millionpeople with Ashkenazi Jewish heritage can take 23andMe’s BRCA test7.7 billionpeople do nothave AshkenaziJewish heritage;the test is notuseful for them2 percentreceive apositive result98 percentreceive anegative resultMust confirmresults with aclinical testResults do notrule out riskMust get aclinical testWorld Population11 millionpeople withAshkenazi Jewishheritage can take23andMe’sBRCA test7.7 billionpeople do nothave AshkenaziJewish heritage;the test is notuseful for them2 percentreceive apositive result98 percentreceive anegative resultMust confirmresults with aclinical testResults donot ruleout riskMust get aclinical test23andMe’s other genetic health risk tests have the same shortcomings as its BRCA test: They look for only a handful of errors that may or may not elevate your risk of developing the disease in question. And they don’t factor into their final analysis other information, like family history. (Not everyone with a given mutation will go on to develop the disease.) So the results will not tell you much about your actual health risks.The F.D.A. used to bar 23andMe from selling tests that purport to give health information because such tests were considered a flimsy predictor of health. Their results were also deemed too difficult for consumers to interpret on their own. The agency has since reversed that decision — in part because it has found the company’s tests to be accurate and its disclaimers clear.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Robert PearWASHINGTON — No issue animated the Democrats’ 2018 congressional campaigns like health care and the promises to expand access to insurance and to lower costs. But as House Democrats sit down to draft their vision of governance in the coming weeks, lawmakers find themselves badly divided on the issue that delivered their majority.Centrists from swing districts, with the tacit support of Speaker Nancy Pelosi, favor incremental moves to shore up the Affordable Care Act and to lower the out-of-pocket costs of prescription drugs and medical care. They are pushing a variety of measures, such as shutting down cheap, short-term insurance plans that do not cover pre-existing medical conditions and allowing people to buy into Medicare at age 50 or 55.“We have very practical solutions that we can implement immediately,” said Representative Kim Schrier, Democrat of Washington, who is also a pediatrician. “We don’t have the luxury of time right now to wait for a full overhaul of our health care system.”But they are butting up against an aggressive and expanding group of more than 100 outspoken Democrats — as well as at least four of the party’s presidential candidates — who want to do just that, upend the whole system with a single government insurance plan for all Americans — the old concept of single payer, now called Medicare for all.“I reject the idea that single payer is impossible,” said Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York.The fight will play out in the coming weeks as the new House majority assembles its first budget, a policy document that will not hold the force of law but will carry significant political weight, revealing Democrats’ intentions not only on health care but on taxation, climate change, Social Security and other hot-button issues as well. But more than any other subject, Democrats’ achievements or failures on health care may well define them as they try to defend their fragile majority next year.“Health care was on the ballot,” Ms. Pelosi declared in November, “and health care won.”The idea of Medicare for all is immensely contentious. It would greatly expand the federal role in health care. Critics say it would require a big increase in federal spending, and proponents have not said how they would pay for it. Some versions of Medicare for all could wipe out much of the health insurance industry and replace employer-sponsored health plans that now cover more than 155 million Americans. Supporters say the proposal would guarantee universal coverage and put health care on a budget, reducing what consumers and employers spend. But insurance companies, along with many hospitals and doctors, are waging a vigorous campaign against it, believing that it would reduce the payments they receive for providing care.Ms. Pelosi cannot afford to put moderate freshmen in Trump-friendly districts on the spot by putting Medicare for all up to a vote.“Most people receive health care from their employer,” said Representative Scott Peters, Democrat of California and a vice chairman for the New Democrat Coalition, a centrist group. “They do not want to replace it with an untested government system.”But that view is being challenged from some surprising corners of the party. Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan and no one’s idea of an upstart firebrand, is now a champion of the Medicare for All Act. She said the government was already delivering health care to significant areas of the population — the elderly, the poor, service members, children and veterans.“We’ve got Medicare, we’ve got Children’s Health Insurance, and now it’s time for everybody,” said Ms. Dingell, whose husband, John, and his father before him, pressed for universal health care when they served in Congress. Before her husband died last month, she said, he told her to “bring it over the finish line.”The debate reflects how much the political climate around health care has changed since passage of the Affordable Care Act in 2010. Former President Barack Obama had promoted the idea of a public option — a government-run health program to compete with private insurance on a federally run insurance marketplace — but moderate Democrats balked, and it was not included in the final law.Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, almost single-handedly put the idea of Medicare for all on the agenda during his 2016 presidential campaign. Since then, the concept has become a kind of litmus test for liberals. Republicans’ dismissal of it as socialism has only emboldened the new wave of liberal freshman Democrats in the House.Backers of Medicare for all say that, if framed correctly around saving health care costs, it can appeal to voters in more moderate districts.“Progressives have done a very good job making the moral case for Medicare for all,” said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California. “What we now need to do is make the economic case.”But with Republicans in charge of the White House and the Senate, the centrists argue that Congress needs to start with more incremental initiatives that could be slipped into larger bills, such as restoring money to enroll people in health plans on the Affordable Care Act’s exchanges. Other bills have bipartisan support; a measure drafted by Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, would create state-based reinsurance programs to help pay large health insurance claims, thus lowering premiums on the act’s exchanges.“After years of damage done to the A.C.A. from past Republican Congresses and the administration, we must start by reversing the sabotage,” leaders of the New Democrat Coalition wrote in a letter to the chairmen of three House committees responsible for health legislation.Ms. Pelosi has publicly stayed out of the fight, but with hearings on Medicare for all and other proposals scheduled in the coming weeks, that stance may not be sustainable. People close to her say she has serious reservations about the single-payer bill and believes the nation can achieve the goal of universal coverage at a more manageable cost by building on the framework of the Affordable Care Act, which she worked tirelessly to secure in 2010.Polls show the idea of a government-sponsored plan is broadly popular; the Kaiser Family Foundation, which tracks attitudes on health care, reported in January that 56 percent of respondents were somewhat or strongly in favor of a plan such as Medicare for all, in which all Americans would get their health care from the government. Even more — roughly three-fourths — were somewhat or strongly in favor of allowing people to buy into various government health plans.When respondents were asked what they wanted Congress to work on, they prioritized keeping protections for people with pre-existing medical conditions and lowering prescription drug costs ahead of enforcing Medicare for all. And the polls show support for Medicare for all falls off when people are asked or told about details of the plans, including possible tax increases to pay for it.Even so, Adam Green, a founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, a liberal advocacy group, said that support for Medicare for all had become “a mainstream position” among Democrats.“I don’t think the split is as much between progressives and more conservative Democrats,” Mr. Green said. “I actually think the bigger split is between Democrats who just ran and had competitive races in 2018 and a bunch of old-timers who didn’t experience the dynamic of 2018 and are still operating in yesteryear, where Medicare for all was seen as more of a fringe position.”Many Democrats focused their election campaigns around protecting people with pre-existing conditions, and they want to move quickly to votes on proposals to do that — in part to test Republicans who made similar pledges during their campaigns. The full House has yet to vote on legislation on pre-existing conditions, though in the first 10 days of the new Congress, it voted twice to intervene in a lawsuit that threatens to eliminate the Affordable Care Act’s protections for people with such conditions.The three House committees with jurisdiction over health care — Energy and Commerce; Ways and Means; and Oversight and Reform — have channeled their energies into numerous hearings on how to lower prescription drug costs, how to expand coverage and protect people with pre-existing conditions and how to override actions by the Trump administration.Legislation is coming. Democrats are considering restricting the sales of short-term insurance policies, approved by the Trump administration, that do not have to comply with the Affordable Care Act, which means they do not have to provide essential health benefits and can discriminate against those with pre-existing conditions. Democrats are also looking for ways to cooperate with Republicans on proposals to lower prescription drug prices and to outlaw tactics used by brand-name companies to delay competition from generics.Hearings on Medicare for all will begin as early as April, according to Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, who is leading the push for the Medicare for All Act.Under the bill sponsored by Ms. Jayapal and Ms. Dingell, the secretary of health and human services would establish a “national health budget,” specifying the total amount to be spent each year, and a national fee schedule for health care providers. Republicans have recently been demanding hearings on it, in the belief that they can score political points by showing that the proposal would be immensely expensive and disruptive.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ed O’LoughlinIreland diagnosed a record high number of new H.I.V. infections in 2018, new health data suggests, a trend that contrasts with a general decline in infections across Europe, and that some Irish activists attribute to poor sex health education and insufficient access to preventive drugs.Preliminary figures released last month by the Health Protection Surveillance Center, a state watchdog, suggested that 531 new cases of H.I.V. infection had been diagnosed in Ireland last year, an increase from 492 the previous year. And though intravenous drug use was the main way H.I.V. spread through Ireland in the late 1980s and early 1990s, in recent years sex between gay and bisexual men has become the most common route for transmission, accounting for more than half of new cases.Dr. Derval Igoe, a specialist in public health at the Irish government’s Health Services Executive, said that although the number of diagnosed H.I.V. infections in Ireland had recently increased after several years of stability, the rise did not necessarily indicate a widening epidemic.Overall, Ireland’s rate of new diagnoses, at 10.2 per 100,000 people in 2017, was higher than the European average of roughly 6.2 per 100,000. But it was not the highest in the European Union: Latvia reported 18.8 cases per 100,000 people, and Estonia 16.6 cases per 100,000, according to European health officials.Dr. Igoe said that a high proportion of the new cases involved migrants who had been infected before they came to the country, and people whose infection was detected through a local testing program introduced in 2016 that encourages people to discover their status early.“It’s really a rare bright note in the treatment of H.I.V. that we can tell people, ‘If you take a test, find out your status early on, you can deal with it so that you don’t get sick, and you won’t make other people sick either,’” she said. “As we say, if the virus is undetectable, it’s untransmittable too.”In recent years, government campaigns to reduce the harm from drugs, including the introduction of needle exchanges, methadone treatments and health education, have decreased the number of H.I.V. cases transmitted through drug use. In 2017, only 5 percent of the new H.I.V. diagnoses were found to have been transmitted via infected needles, while 53 percent were attributable to sex between men, according to health officials.At the same time, the proportion of new cases via heterosexual transmission, once a small part of the total, has now risen to 33 percent. Dr. Igoe said many of these new cases involved migrants who were not aware of an infection and had come from countries with a much higher prevalence of heterosexual H.I.V. transmission, such as in sub-Saharan Africa.Barriers to medicines may have also contributed to the increase. Andrew Leavitt, a spokesman for the Irish chapter of the international H.I.V. activist group Act Up, said the use of medications to prevent infection before and after exposure — so-called PrEP drugs that are particularly effective at reducing transmission among gay and bisexual men — has been hampered in Ireland by the slow introduction of cheaper generic versions of the drugs.These preventive drugs are now available as prescriptions in Ireland, at costs varying from 50 to 80 euros, or about $56 to $90, for a 30-day supply — prices that are down, Mr. Leavitt said, from several hundred euros a month for the patent brand, Truvada. In several other Western European countries, the drugs are available cheaply or at no charge from public health services.“The more widely available these drugs are, if they’re used properly, the fewer infections there will be,” Mr. Leavitt said.He said that while some of the increase in sexual transmission in recent years could, in part, be ascribed to the new popularity of “hookup” apps and to unsafe drug use in conjunction with sex, the activist group is particularly concerned about what it regards as the poor sex education in Irish schools.AdvertisementSupported byA new analysis found that for each additional 300 milligrams a day of cholesterol in the diet — and the more eggs you ate — the greater the risk for cardiovascular disease.By Nicholas BakalarSome nutrition experts say eggs are good for you, even though they are high in cholesterol. Others are sure they are bad. A large new study may help resolve at least some of the confusion.The new analysis looked at data from six large prospective studies involving almost 30,000 participants, with an average follow-up of more than 17 years. It found that for each additional 300 milligrams a day of cholesterol in the diet, there was a 17 percent increased risk of cardiovascular disease and an 18 percent increased risk of premature death from any cause.Eggs alone — a large egg has about 185 milligrams of cholesterol, all of it contained in the yolk — had the same more-is-worse effect. Each additional half-egg a day was associated with a 6 percent increased risk of cardiovascular disease and an 8 percent increased risk of early death.The study findings are observational and cannot establish cause and effect. But no matter how heart-healthy the rest of a person’s diet, the more eggs consumed, the greater the risk for cardiovascular events, coronary heart disease, stroke, heart failure and premature death. The same was true for dietary cholesterol, independent of other dietary characteristics: The more cholesterol in your diet, the higher the risk for disease. The findings were published in JAMA.Dr. Robert H. Eckel, a professor of medicine at the University of Colorado who wrote an editorial accompanying the study, called the work far more comprehensive than previous reviews. There is “enough data to make a strong statement that eggs and overall dietary cholesterol intake remain important in affecting the risk of cardiovascular disease, and more so the risk of all-cause mortality,” he wrote.The authors say that the average cholesterol consumption of Americans has not changed much over the last few decades — about 300 milligrams a day. But even at that level, they found, dietary cholesterol is tied to an increased risk for cardiovascular problems.There are many other risk factors for heart disease besides diet, and the numbers the authors cite indicate the percentage of additional risk from a high-cholesterol diet, so the effect is not striking. But because heart disease is the most common cause of death in the United States — more common than all forms of cancer combined — even a small relative increase in rates of illness means a large increase in the number of deaths.“This study takes into account the general quality of the diet and adjusts for it,” said Norrina B. Allen, the lead author of the new study and an associate professor of epidemiology at Northwestern. “We really were focused on the independent effects of eggs and dietary cholesterol. For example, healthier people tend to eat more eggs because they feel there’s a lot of protein in them, but even for healthy people on healthy diets, the harmful effect of eggs and cholesterol was consistent.”She noted that not all people are affected in the same way by dietary cholesterol, and that the relationship between the amount of cholesterol consumed and the amount in the blood is complex and varies from person to person, depending on metabolic and genetic factors. Some people can eat a lot of eggs and little of the cholesterol goes into the blood. “Our study examined dietary cholesterol at the population level,” she said, “but for individuals there will be a lot more variation in the relationship between dietary cholesterol and heart disease.”Still, she said, “This study found a very consistent association. But eggs have some advantages — amino acids and minerals — and these are beneficial. You do want to reduce the number of eggs, especially egg yolks, as part of a healthy diet. But we don’t want people to walk away thinking they shouldn’t eat any eggs. That’s not the right message.”Current recommendations regarding dietary cholesterol, and eggs in particular, are indeed confusing. The Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2015-2020, published by the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Agriculture, for example, states that we “should eat as little cholesterol as possible while consuming a healthy eating pattern.” But the Scientific Report that accompanies those same guidelines says that “cholesterol is not a nutrient of concern for overconsumption,” suggesting that avoiding eggs is not important.The scientific literature can be equally confusing, with studies reaching varying conclusions about the importance of dietary cholesterol, or eggs in particular, on overall health.Several aspects of this study make it different from and, to some experts, more convincing than other reports. The authors were able to isolate data for each individual participant, unlike “most previous meta-analyses, which have combined the results that have already been calculated,” Dr. Allen said. They were also able to record the exact amounts of cholesterol in each person’s diet and to sort out the effects of the cholesterol in eggs from all the other foods that contain cholesterol.Dr. Frank B. Hu, a professor of nutrition and epidemiology at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, found the work interesting and carefully carried out but, he said, “the results are surprising because here even a half-egg a day makes a difference. This study seems to find a much stronger association than what has previously been found.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSINGAPORE — A mutual health aid plan launched by Ant Financial Services Group, the dominant fintech player in China, has amassed more than 50 million users and is aiming for 300 million within two years, the company said late on Thursday. The plan, dubbed Xiang Hu Bao or literally "mutual protection", is marketed on Ant Financial's flagship mobile payment app Alipay and provides participants a basic medical coverage with the risks and expenses distributed across all members.It has gained unexpected popularity among China's "low-end population", poorer sections of society, who struggle to afford medical services due to the government's inadequate social healthcare system and are under-served by traditional commercial insurers as they cannot meet the premiums and advance payments required with commercial health insurance products.About 47 percent of Xiang Hu Bao plan's 50 million participants are migrant workers and 31 percent are from rural areas and county-level regions, Ant Financial said.Chinese billionaire Jack Ma's Ant Financial was spun off from e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Co Ltd, which went public in 2014, and has played a vital role in shaping the financial technology landscape in China, shaking up the state-controlled traditional banking, asset management and insurance sectors with disruptive new products.The expansion of Xiang Hu Bao was even faster than Ant Financial's blockbuster online spare cash management platform Yu'e Bao, which took more than six months to reach the 50 million user milestone after launching in 2013 and has grown to become the world's largest money market fund with 1.13 trillion yuan ($168.2 billion) in net asset as of end-2018. China has a population of nearly 1.4 billion.The Xiang Hu Bao health plan protects participants against 100 critical illnesses with a one-time payout of up to 300,000 yuan ($44,650). The cost is shared equally by all other participants, capped at 188 yuan per month for individual users in 2019, according to its description.Despite its mutual insurance features, Ant Financial said the plan is "not a health insurance product", indicating the product is not regulated by the country's insurance regulator.AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie Rogers and Lawrence K. Altman, M.D.WASHINGTON — President Trump’s personal physician said on Friday that the president is in “very good health” and should remain so “for the remainder of his presidency and beyond” after Mr. Trump underwent a comprehensive physical examination at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center outside Washington.But Dr. Sean Conley, a Navy officer who is the president’s physician and the current director of the White House medical unit, released no details about what a team of 11 specialists had found in the course of a four-hour examination of Mr. Trump. Dr. Conley said that “reports and recommendations are being finalized,” but did not say if, when or in what form they would be publicly released.Last year, after Mr. Trump’s first full examination as president, the White House took the unusual step of having Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, then the president’s physician, deliver a lengthy report in the White House briefing room and then answer questions from reporters. Dr. Jackson was widely ridiculed for using excessive language in describing the president’s health.“It’s called genetics,” Dr. Jackson said. “I told the president if he had eaten healthier over the last 25 years, he might live to be 200.”Dr. Jackson also said at the time that Mr. Trump had requested a cognitive function screening test and had performed well. Dr. Conley did not say on Friday whether he repeated the test this year.Periodic medical exams for the president are a tradition that goes back decades, and historically, presidential checkups tend to buoy whatever image the president has presented about his health.The doctors who examined Mr. Trump on Friday, whose areas of expertise were not detailed by the White House, were working to detect signs of improvement or cause for concern in areas publicly detailed last year by Dr. Jackson.While Dr. Jackson referred last year to the president’s “excellent” condition, he also laid out a few health goals for the president, including reducing Mr. Trump’s weight and lowering levels of what is commonly referred to as bad cholesterol.Among the open questions is whether Mr. Trump was able to shed 10 to 15 pounds from his weight last year, when it was reported to be 239 pounds — just below the official label of obesity — on his 6-foot-3 frame. Dr. Jackson said last year that the two men discussed building in exercise to the president’s schedule and working healthier foods into Mr. Trump’s diet.The president’s weight has been a moving target in recent years: Dr. Harold N. Bornstein, who was Mr. Trump’s longtime physician in New York City before he moved to the White House, said in September 2016 that Mr. Trump weighed 236 pounds. In December 2015, Dr. Bornstein said Mr. Trump had lost at least 10 pounds during the preceding year.On Friday, a White House spokesman said that Mr. Trump had not adhered fully to the program prescribed by Dr. Jackson, which included a nutritionist-advised diet and an exercise program.“The president received a diet and exercise plan last year after his annual physical,” Hogan Gidley, the spokesman, said in a statement, “but the president admits he has not followed it religiously.”Another goal was reducing Mr. Trump’s high cholesterol level of 223 mg/deciliter with a low dose of a powerful statin drug. Dr. Jackson did not specify a target number for this year, and said he was focused on lowering the president’s LDL levels to under 120 mg/deciliter from 143 mg/deciliter.After Mr. Trump’s examination in January 2018, Dr. Jackson said he had deferred a routine colonoscopy “until the next periodic physical exam,” but it was unclear if Mr. Trump had undergone a colonoscopy as part of Friday’s examination.The White House did not comment on whether Mr. Trump underwent the procedure, which is conducted to detect polyps, cancer and other ailments, but said that he did not undergo any procedures requiring sedation or anesthesia.In the past, presidents have invoked the 25th Amendment, which temporarily transfers power to the vice president, if they underwent sedation as part of that procedure.President George W. Bush invoked the 25th Amendment twice when he underwent colonoscopies, temporarily transferring power to Vice President Dick Cheney. In 2010, President Barack Obama underwent a virtual colonoscopy, which may not require sedation or anesthesia, and retained his presidential powers.Mr. Trump has had repeated colonoscopies in years past that showed no cancer or bowel disease, Dr. Bornstein has said. According to a letter Dr. Bornstein wrote during Mr. Trump’s candidacy, the president’s last colonoscopy was performed on July 10, 2013.There were no other items besides the physical on the president’s public schedule on Friday, but the presidential Twitter account was still updating the public while Mr. Trump was at Walter Reed. Mr. Trump sent along his condolences about the death of John D. Dingell Jr., the longest-serving member of Congress in American history, and the baseball legend Frank Robinson, who both died Thursday.
APRIL 10, 2019

Patricia Ione Lloyd’s original play “Cold Hands Warm Heart,” written for T’s Culture issue.
By Patricia Ione Lloyd  APRIL 10, 2019BRIANNA: American, black, 22, with long dreadlocks. She is very pretty. She is barefoot and wearing a hospital gown.GRACE: American, Chinese, 55, gorgeous long black hair streaked with white. She is barefoot and wearing a hospital gown.SADIE: American, white, 35, seven months pregnant. Her skin has a beautiful glow from pregnancy. She is barefoot and wearing a hospital gown.TYLER: American, black, 28, a doctor, speaks with a Southern accent, in her first year of residency at the hospital. She is cute in a quirky way.WENDY: American, white, 30, a doctor in her last year of residency at the hospital. She looks like the “girl next door” type.The year 2024 in Anytown, U.S.A. A sterile white room in a hospital. BRIANNA, GRACE and SADIE sit on the edge of exam tables. There is a large round clock on the wall that makes a ticking noise — ticktock, ticktock.BRIANNA     I hate it, I hate waiting. There must be something wrong with that clock, time is passing so slowly.GRACE     You’re both probably too young to remember when hospitals had magazines you could look at while you were waiting.BRIANNA     Magazines, like for real in print and not online?GRACE and SADIE smile at each other.SADIE     Yeah, for real in print.BRIANNA (To Sadie and Grace.) That’s what happened to all the trees. Thanks a lot.The other women ignore her comment as they remember the good old days. GRACE plays with a strand of her dark hair streaked with white. SADIE rubs her pregnant belly.SADIE     I remember, and the magazines were in waiting rooms.BRIANNA     Waiting rooms?SADIE     Rooms where everyone waited to see the doctor.GRACE     Yes, that was nice, and when it was time to see the doctor you’d be alone in the room, not with strangers.SADIE begins to cry.BRIANNA     Hey don’t cry, please don’t cry.GRACE     O.K., O.K., look, my name is Grace and this is —BRIANNA     My name is Brianna.GRACE     I’m here because I, well, I felt something in my breast — a lump, I guess.BRIANNA     Oh my God, are you O.K.?SADIE cries harder.BRIANNA (To distract Sadie.) And I’m here because I have really painful periods, like really painful. Like some old people are doing a Civil War re-enactment in my uterus and they want the South to win and black people to still be slaves. (Pause.) So now we all know each other and we’re not strangers anymore.SADIE stops crying and looks incredulously at BRIANNA. She starts laughing. The other two women also laugh.SADIE     My name is Sadie and I’m here because, you could guess, the baby. I’m sorry I was crying. It’s silly, but I really miss magazines.BRIANNA     That’s why you were crying? Over magazines?SADIE     Yes. It’s the hormones.GRACE (To Sadie.) You remind me of my partner — you have the same smile. There was a mouse in our house and my partner wanted me to catch it before she gave birth to our baby. If we didn’t catch that mouse she said we would have to move, and she was serious. I laid out a trap and caught the mouse. My partner found it first and burst into tears. I have to admit, it was a cute little thing, furry with big eyes. She was so worried about its little mouse family and what if something like that happened to our little family?BRIANNA     Something like what?GRACE     My partner was worried someone would lay a trap for us, too.SADIE     Your partner?GRACE     Yes.SADIE     Like your business partner?GRACE     No.BRIANNA     Like you’re queer, like your wifey partner?GRACE     Yes. We waited too long to get married, and then gay marriage was made illegal.SADIE     I wouldn’t have thought you were gay. You don’t look gay. Not that people have to look gay to be gay, whatever looking gay looks like anyway.BRIANNA     Does the hospital know?SADIE     I would never tell.BRIANNA     Me neither, I would never tell.GRACE     It’s in my file. When they made us all register our sexual identities at the D.M.V. I didn’t lie.An awkward silence. SADIE rubs her pregnant belly. BRIANNA studies her nails and stares at the clock. GRACE tells us her thoughts. The other women do not hear her. The ticktock, ticktock of the clock gets a little louder.GRACE     One of the good things about being gay is that someone is always rubbing on your breasts. Lesbians love tits. She found it first — a small, hard little bump. I told her it was nothing. She wanted to believe me but made me promise to go to a doctor. We always keep our promises to each other. Our son’s kindergarten teacher called us in for a meeting. They said some of the parents didn’t want their kids to play with him because we’re gay. We put Peter in a private school. Fifty-thousand dollars a year to eat snacks and nap. Money is tight. Most doctors don’t take insurance anymore, not that anyone has it. The government shut down all of the Planned Parenthoods, so I couldn’t get a breast examination there or a referral for a mammogram. Now there are these state women’s health clinics. The night before my appointment at the state clinic, my partner and I made love, desperately drinking each other in. She still held onto me in her sleep. I hardly slept that night. I wanted to remember her before anything changed. I memorized the small of her back. The curve of her neck. In the morning, she woke me with soft kisses. With each kiss she said, “A promise is a promise is a promise.” At the state clinic, I filled out the form and gave them my driver’s license. I was told they couldn’t see me based on a moral objection to homosexuality. That’s how I ended up here. They’ll take anybody. This place is the worst. I was going to leave, but then I saw Sadie all alone and I stayed.GRACE glances at SADIE, SADIE sees her, GRACE looks away. We hear SADIE’s thoughts, no one else does. The ticktock, ticktock of the clock gets a little louder.SADIE     My baby knows my heartbeat and I know hers in a way that no one else ever will. I love being pregnant. I have been dreaming a lot more. I guess that makes sense because I’ve been sleeping a lot more. I dreamt I was in a bathtub of mashed potatoes and the bar of soap was butter — that was amazing. I dreamt I was having sex with my college boyfriend — also amazing, but not bathtub-of-mashed-potatoes amazing. I dreamt that my husband was having an affair and I woke up pissed off and cussed him out. He told me he wasn’t cheating on me — which was true — and how beautiful I am. He is a good man. The thing about these dreams is that I’d move my arm in my dream and I’d feel my baby move her arm, or I’d walk in my dream and I’d feel my baby kick. Like she was dreaming my dream with me. People said it was my imagination, but I knew they were wrong. My baby and I, we dream together and in color. One night I was dreaming with my baby, but it was her dream not mine. I was swimming. The waters weren’t blue, they were pink and silver and so warm. Maybe I wasn’t swimming, maybe I was flying, flying and swimming. I was inside my own womb with my baby, dreaming. I have never felt so safe and loved in my entire life. It was a place you’d never want to leave. It felt so real. Then the waters turned cold and rough and shook us back and forth. It became harder and harder to breathe. I heard this little voice say, “Mommy, Mommy, help me.” Oh God, it was my baby. I woke up gasping for breath. I didn’t tell anyone. I knew no one would believe me.I called the state clinic as soon as they opened to get an appointment. I wasn’t spotting so they wouldn’t see me. They told me I was overreacting. I pleaded, I spoke softly, I yelled and cried. They finally said I could come in the next day if I still wasn’t feeling well. A couple hours later I, I …She starts screaming in agony. The other women hear her and rush to her side. She gets off the exam table and squats, holding her pregnant belly.SADIE     MY BABY, MY BABY.GRACE     Sadie it’s O.K. Just breathe, it’s O.K.BRIANNA     Oh my God, what’s wrong with her? Where’s the doctor — can’t they hear her?SADIE     MY BABY, MY BABY.GRACE     Sadie, Sadie, look at me. Look at me.SADIE looks at GRACE.GRACE     You don’t have to push. You’re tired, it’s O.K.BRIANNA     What is wrong with you? That is not what you are supposed to say to pregnant ladies. Push, Sadie. Push.GRACE     Brianna, you don’t know what you’re talking about. (Turns to Sadie.) You don’t have to punish yourself like this, it wasn’t your fault.SADIE     I wish to God this were a dream, but it isn’t.GRACE     No it’s not.SADIE     My baby is gone.GRACE     Yes.SADIE     That’s good. I don’t want her in a place like this. How come you stayed?GRACE     You remind me of my partner, and she wouldn’t have wanted me to leave a woman in your condition alone. I’m a gentlelady.SADIE (Calm, in a sad way now, drying her tears.) A gentlelady?GRACE     Like a gentleman, except a gentleLADY.SADIE shakes her head and laughs a sad little laugh.BRIANNA     You two have lost your minds. I’m going to get a doctor.BRIANNA gets up and goes to the door. She tries to open the door but can’t. She bangs on the door over and over again. She shouts for help.GRACE     Poor thing, she doesn’t know.SADIE     How are we going to tell her?GRACE     I was hoping she’d figure it out. I have to leave soon. Are you going to leave, too?SADIE     I don’t know. I want to, I’m just so tired.BRIANNA goes back over to the other women.BRIANNA     The doors, they’re locked. We can’t get out. I don’t even know what time it is. The clock, I think it’s fast and slow. I don’t know. Where’s my phone? Does anyone have a phone? Where’s my stuff? What’s going on?SADIE     Honey, tell us why you are here.BRIANNA     I told you, I have really bad periods.GRACE     What is the last thing you remember?The ticktock, ticktock of the clock gets a little louder.BRIANNA (Brianna slowly remembers.) I hadn’t been to a doctor in years. With the new state clinics, every woman gets one visit a year, but the lines are so long and there are waiting lists for the good places. The nearest clinic to me is three hours away. I mean, I’m fine except I have really bad periods. Nothing some aspirin, tequila and weed won’t help. I wasn’t really trying to have some doctor look at my vagina in an assembly line of vaginas anyway. One day, my cramps were so bad I couldn’t walk. My brother carried me in his arms to his car and my mom took me to the emergency room even though it would be thousands of dollars. I kept on saying I was O.K. and it was so much money, too much money, and I was O.K. I told them to stop the car, that I was going to get out and walk home. But they didn’t stop the car and I couldn’t walk. The windows of the car were open and the breeze felt so good. The doctor said he wished I would’ve come in sooner.Footsteps are heard approaching the door. The doorknob turns. The women look at each other. SADIE puts her finger to her lips as a sign to tell them they should be quiet. The women quickly get onto their individual exam tables and lie down. Enter the doctors TYLER and WENDY.WENDY     So did you get into the program before they ended affirmative action?TYLER     No. I got in here just like you.WENDY     Oh, wow. That’s great. You must be really smart. I don’t think we get a lot of people that are … from down south in this program. Well, here they are, the ladies.WENDY motions to the women on the tables. TYLER crosses herself. She looks around the room, finds a folding chair and stands on it. She takes the clock off the wall. It is still ticking. Ticktock, ticktock. She removes the batteries from the clock and puts it on the floor face down.WENDY     What did you do that for?TYLER     There shouldn’t be a clock in the morgue. My grandma taught me that. A clock will just make the dead linger when they should be on their way.WENDY     Good to know. O.K., let me turn on the rest of the lights so you can have your pick.WENDY flips on another light switch and the room is revealed to be much larger than it appeared before. There are rows and rows of bodies of dead women on tables.TYLER     Oh my God, there are so many.WENDY     Yeah, and you better choose the right one. She’ll be with you for the whole semester, or as long as she lasts.TYLER     They’re all women.WENDY     Yes. The chart on the side of the table tells you what they died from.TYLER goes to GRACE’s chart and reads it.TYLER     Breast cancer, it was never treated.TYLER goes to SADIE’s chart and reads it.TYLER     Placental abruption, the placenta separated from the wall of the uterus too early. The baby didn’t get enough oxygen, the mother bled out.TYLER goes to BRIANNA’s chart and reads it.TYLER     Vaginal cancer, treatment was started well after the disease had progressed.TYLER looks at all three women on the tables in front of her.TYLER     They were all treatable illnesses, preventable.WENDY     Yes. O.K., who’s it going to be?TYLER looks at BRIANNA.TYLER     I think her.TYLER blows on her hands and rubs them together to warm them.WENDY     It doesn’t matter if your hands are cold.TYLER     Yeah, right, O.K., of course.TYLER opens a drawer and takes out a white sheet. She drapes it over BRIANNA as if she is tucking in a child at bedtime. She wheels BRIANNA out of the room. WENDY follows, shutting the door behind them.Pause.The rows and rows of dead women sit up on their tables.Mental health stigma must end, Prince William said on a panel at Davos. He also spoke of his own struggles with mental health and the British tradition of suppressing emotions.AdvertisementSupported byEl EspaceIt’s about planting seeds that will grow into understanding “whenever they’re ready.”By Concepción de LeónEl Espace is a column dedicated to news and culture relevant to Latinx communities. Expect politics, arts, analysis, personal essays and more. ¿Lo mejor? It’ll be in Spanish and English, so you can forward it to your tía, your primo Lalo or anyone else (read: everyone).Let me know if any of these sound familiar: Boys don’t cry. We don’t air family business. You have to be strong. Turn to God.These refrains (all of which I’ve heard at least once, some in the last month) are just some of the responses that people dealing with mental health challenges in Latino communities have come to know well. Going to therapy or struggling with mental illness can be viewed as a sign of weakness or that you’re “crazy.” Combine this with unequal access to mental health services and quality health insurance, and it’s no wonder that Latinos, who are just as likely to suffer from a mental illness as whites, are half as likely to seek treatment. When Adriana Alejandre, a therapist in the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles, started her practice in 2017, she tried to find accessible information for her predominantly Latino patients — the kind of resources that would apply directly to their lives. “I was super frustrated, because I couldn’t find any resources for my clients that were relevant, that were modern, that weren’t so much clinical jargon,” she said. So last year, she started a podcast to get the word out and help Latino patients see therapists as “more relatable.” Immediately she received dozens of responses asking for more information and, crucially, Spanish-language content. Alejandre started recording the episodes in Spanish as well as English. Now, Latinx Therapy is a full-fledged platform with a directory of therapists and free screening tests for depression, eating disorders and other common mental illnesses. At speaking engagements, Alejandre said, people still tell her things like “I’m not crazy,” or “That stuff is not for us, for our family. Our problems, we solve it ourselves.” She explained that Latino communities tend to be collectivist, meaning that we value the group over the individual, sometimes to personal detriment. In other words, if family members are resistant to therapy or talking about mental health struggles, “breaking that is tough,” Alejandre said. “The downfall is that people suffer in silence.”The mental health activist Dior Vargas, 31, was one of those people. “I didn’t talk about it with my family at all,” she said about her early struggles with anxiety and depression. “Everything really came to a head when I attempted to end my life when I was 18. That was an eye-opening experience for my family.”“We were all thrust into this really traumatic experience,” she added. Her family “went from having no knowledge to having a lot of knowledge.” One of the problems was that Vargas struggled with viewing her own experiences as valid. She grew up hearing about how many family members grew up poor in Ecuador, including her grandfather, who emigrated to the United States with only a third grade education. “There’s so much trauma he went through that he didn’t deal with, that he didn’t talk about,” she said. Hearing about her grandfather’s struggles made her think: “Who am I to talk about feeling depressed? Ain’t nobody got time for that.”But intergenerational trauma is a crucial reason for Latinos to go to therapy, said Alejandre. Not doing so “allows the cycle to continue — whether it’s trauma, whether it’s depression, anxiety, domestic violence,” she said.She suggests explaining therapy to family members by comparing it to other common treatments: “When we have a cough, we take cough syrup, jarabe, to feel better. When our minds are sick, we go to therapy.” She also said it’s important to clarify that therapy is not only for moments of crisis. “Therapy is a space where you can learn to build skills, whether that’s communication, whether that’s understanding yourself, creating boundaries.” For me, setting boundaries meant not telling anyone in my family that I was going to therapy for more than a year. It helped to have it be my own thing, to not have to answer to anyone or be questioned about what went on there. Vargas’s approach was to share “very general things so that they felt like they were part of it, but not to the extent that they knew too much, because that time between me and my therapist was my time.” Alejandre said: “It is tough when family sees you as ungrateful for healthy behaviors like boundary setting. But the system will not change if someone does not initiate the change.”And early conversations about therapy are like planting seeds in our communities, she added. Those seeds will grow into an understanding “whenever they’re ready.”Here are more stories to read this week. 📲 Check out our new Crossing the Border newsletter for (sometimes harrowing) stories about life on the U.S.-Mexico border.📺 Netflix is going to adapt “Cien Años de Soledad” into a series. 🎙 The former owner of La Marina, Fernando Mateo, went on “The Breakfast Club” to talk about the saga there.AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsThe Rolling Stones said on Saturday that Mick Jagger required medical treatment for an unspecified health problem and that the band would postpone its spring tour in the United States and Canada.Jagger’s doctors advised him not to go on the remaining 17 shows of the tour but expected him to make a “complete recovery,” according to a statement from the band. Jagger, 75, apologized to fans.“I really hate letting you down like this,” he said in a tweet. “I’m devastated for having to postpone the tour but I will be working very hard to be back on stage as soon as I can.”The band, which got its start more than five decades ago, performed the first two legs of its “No Filter” tour in Europe during fall 2017 and spring 2018. The final leg of the tour was scheduled to take the band through American cities including Miami, Houston, Denver and Chicago, as well as a venue north of Toronto. The Stones were scheduled to play at New Orleans Jazz Festival in May.The statement from the band suggested that the shows would be rescheduled and recommended that fans hold on to their tickets.Jagger is not the first 1960s-era music icon to show signs of slowing down in old age.In February, the rock guitarist Peter Frampton announced that he had a degenerative muscle disease that could slow his fingers and his ability to move around; he said he would be staging a farewell tour. And last year, two major figures in the ’60s folk revival, Paul Simon and Joan Baez, played farewell concerts.John Covach, a professor of music at the University of Rochester who has taught a course on the band, said that because the Stones remain a rock institution, they had been able to tour as much as they wanted in recent years and still pack stadiums and arenas. But these demanding and exhausting international tours can take a toll.“Who can tour around the country when they’re 70 or 75 years old?” he said on Saturday.He said that for avid fans of the Stones or other landmark ’60s bands, many of whom are baby boomers, news of farewell tours and rock stars dying of natural causes can remind them of their own mortality.“It forces a lot of fans to come to terms with the fact that this music from their youth, the people who produced it, are passing from the scene,” he said.Follow Julia Jacobs on Twitter: @juliarebeccaj.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer SteinhauerWASHINGTON — Veterans who live as little as a 30-minute drive from a Veterans Affairs health care facility will instead be able to choose private care, the most significant change in rules released Wednesday as part of the Trump administration’s effort to fix years-old problems with the health system.Veterans who can prove they must drive for at least 30 minutes to a Department of Veterans Affairs facility will be allowed to seek primary care and mental health services outside the department’s system. Current law lets veterans use a private health care provider if they must travel 40 miles or more to a V.A. clinic. Measuring commuting time rather than distance will greatly open the private sector to veterans in rural and high-traffic urban areas.Supporters say the new policy, which is likely to go into effect in June, will help veterans get faster and better care. But critics fear it will prompt the erosion of the largest integrated health care system in the country as billions of dollars are redirected to private care.The goal of the new policy, officials say, is to provide veterans with easier, streamlined access to health care.“This is the most transformative piece of legislation since the G.I. Bill,” Robert Wilkie, the secretary of veterans affairs, said in a telephone interview this week. “It gets us on the road to becoming a 21st-century health care institution.”The move has been anticipated for months, after congressional lawmakers passed legislation last spring that empowered the administration to make substantial changes to veterans health care.Current law lets veterans facing a wait of 30 days or more for an appointment at their closest V.A. facility seek private care, but under the new policy, that would be reduced to 20 days, and with the goal of 14, by 2020. Veterans will also be allowed access to walk-in clinics; however, those will require co-pays for treatment after a third visit. If seeking a specialist after the new policy takes effect, veterans must prove a drive of at least 60 minutes.Taken together, the percentage of veterans eligible for what officials refer to as “community care” currently — roughly 8 percent of the seven million treated annually — would rise to between 20 and 30 percent, according to Department of Veterans Affairs officials.Lawmakers and veterans advocacy groups — which have been wary of large-scale moves into the private sector — were largely briefed about the program on Wednesday after the new policy was released. This caused some to argue that they had been blindsided, which has been a frequent complaint by Democrats and many traditional veterans advocates during the Trump administration.“While we are glad the V.A. has finally informed us of how it plans to implement the V.F.W.-supported V.A. Mission Act,” said Joseph E. Davis, a spokesman for the Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, “we are disappointed the V.A. chose not to incorporate the voice of our 1.6 million members in the decision making process.”In recent years, Veterans Affairs hospitals have struggled to keep up with patient loads as service members returning from Iraq and Afghanistan — many with complex injuries and post-traumatic stress — hit the system at the same time that aging and increasingly ill older veterans made more use of it.A scandal in 2014 over hidden waiting lists at V.A. facilities sent lawmakers in search of solutions, with many Republicans favoring more use of the private sector and Democrats preferring to add doctors and medical centers to the government-run system.Congressional Republicans and the Trump administration have been greatly influenced by Concerned Veterans for America, an advocacy group with ties to the billionaire industrialist brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch, which has long championed expanding the use of private health care for veterans. Traditional veterans service organizations, which have largely opposed these changes, have had less say under Mr. Wilkie.“These proposed access standards will ensure veterans have better access to health care and will give them more choices in how they receive their care,” said Dan Caldwell, the executive director of Concerned Veterans for America. “These standards are simple and straightforward, eliminating much of the confusion created by the Veterans Choice Program and the V.A.’s other community care programs.”The legislation that was passed last spring and signed by President Trump in June, the Mission Act, increased funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs and earmarked more money for private care. It is up to Congress to beef up both pots of money each year.“I can’t imagine the V.A. being shortchanged in any way,” Mr. Wilkie said. “I can’t imagine anyone doing that.”Critics fear that private health care, which tends to have higher costs than government-provided care, will force the department to cut corners elsewhere. Mr. Trump has instructed his cabinet secretaries to cut each department’s budget, and a prior budget agreement that lifted caps on spending is set to expire soon, leading many to wonder if Veterans Affairs will be able to pay private providers and maintain its own services.A congressionally mandated report in 2016, by a panel called the Commission on Care, analyzed the cost of sending more veterans into the community for treatment and warned that unfettered access could cost well over $100 billion each year. That same commission found quality of care at the Department of Veterans Affairs to be very high, one area of agreement between department officials and those who use and advocate the system.The new standards were developed after V.A. officials studied both the military’s insurance plan, Tricare Prime, which sets a lower bar for access to private care than the department has historically had, and the Medicare Advantage program, which allows Medicare beneficiaries to buy private health insurance plans instead of using government-run fee-for-service Medicare.The Department of Veterans Affairs will remain at the center of care coordination, and the private providers — who would be paid by the department at rates roughly comparable to the Medicare program — would not be permitted to cherry-pick the healthiest patients, V.A. officials said. About 26 percent of veterans pay a co-payment, and they would have similar co-payments at private doctors.The department, however, has struggled greatly with its information technology systems in recent years, and studying those systems is now the purview of a House subcommittee. Whether the department can successfully coordinate care with myriad health care providers will be a concern that Congress will doubtlessly follow.Department officials — including Mr. Wilkie — have repeatedly insisted that the department should and probably will remain the provider of choice for most veterans, who prefer the culture of a V.A. hospital to that of the private sector. But a shrinking veteran population over all in the United States and more reliance on private providers could lead to the closings of some government hospitals, some veterans groups and members of Congress warn.Mr. Wilkie insisted that was not the goal of the new policy, and said that fears of full privatization were unfounded.“I think it’s simple: People don’t want change,” he said of such concerns. “That is a normal human reaction.”Some veterans groups have decided to wait to judge the policy until the spring as the standards continue to be tweaked.“I’ve asked people not to take a negative stance,” said Sherman Gillums Jr., the chief advocacy officer for American Veterans, or Amvets, one of the largest of the six congressionally chartered veterans service organizations. “The president asked the secretary to present a plan and now that he’s given us another step in the plan, it’s our job to help him successfully implement it.”Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

FEB. 1, 2019

Eleven people in eight states have been infected with a strain of salmonella found in these pets:TurtlesParrotsHedgehogsLizardsThe average B.M.I. among American men and women is now approaching this number, the cutoff for obesity:18222530Compared to competitive runners, competitive cyclists showed this somewhat worrisome health condition:Thinner bonesSciatic nerve damageRepetitive stress injuriesAll of the aboveAdults who received intensive treatment to lower their systolic blood pressure (the top number) to below this number were less likely to develop mild cognitive impairment, a precursor to dementia:110120130140A British study found that this aid was most effective in helping smokers quit:Nicotine patchNicotine gumNicotine nasal sprayE-cigarettesAn Australian study found that the rotavirus vaccine may protect against this disease in children:Type 1 diabetesType 2 diabetesFluLyme diseaseThis condition may be least likely to respond to an antibiotic:BronchitisSinusitisAdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareThe claim was that larger organizations would be able to harness economies of scale and offer better care. By Austin FraktMany things affect your health. Genetics. Lifestyle. Modern medicine. The environment in which you live and work. But although we rarely consider it, the degree of competition among health care organizations does so as well. Markets for both hospitals and physicians have become more concentrated in recent years. Although higher prices are the consequences most often discussed, such consolidation can also result in worse health care. Studies show that rates of mortality and of major health setbacks grow when competition falls.This runs counter to claims some in the health care industry have made in favor of mergers. By harnessing economies of scale and scope, they’ve argued, larger organizations can offer better care at lower costs. In one recent example, two Texas health systems — Baylor Scott & White, and Memorial Hermann Health System — sought to merge, forming a 68-hospital system. The systems have since abandoned the plan, but not before Jim Hinton, Baylor Scott & White’s chief executive, told The Wall Street Journal that “the end, the more important end, is to improve care.”  Yet Martin Gaynor, a Carnegie Mellon University economist who is an author of several reviews exploring the consequences of hospital consolidation, said that “evidence from three decades of hospital mergers does not support the claim that consolidation improves quality.” This is especially true when government constrains prices, as is the case for Medicare in the United States and Britain’s National Health Service.“When prices are set by the government, hospitals don’t compete on price; they compete on quality,” Mr. Gaynor said. But this doesn’t happen in markets that are highly consolidated.In 2006, the National Health Service introduced a policy that increased competition among hospitals. When recommending hospital care, it required general practitioners to provide patients with five options, as well as quality data for each. Because hospital payments are fixed by the government — whichever hospital a patient chooses gets the payment for care provided to that patient — hospitals ended up competing on quality.Mr. Gaynor was an author of a study showing that consequences of this policy included shorter hospital stays and lower mortality. According to the study, for every decrease of 10 percentage points in hospital market concentration, 30-day mortality for heart attacks fell nearly 3 percent.Another study found that hospital competition in the N.H.S. decreased heart attack mortality, and several studies of Medicare also found that hospital competition results in lower rates of mortality from heart attacks and pneumonia.Another piece of evidence in the competition-quality connection comes from other types of health care providers, including doctors. Recently, investigators from the Federal Trade Commission examined what happens when cardiologists team up into larger groups. The study, published in Health Services Research, focused on the health care outcomes of about two million Medicare beneficiaries who had been treated for hypertension, for a cardiac ailment or for a heart attack from 2005 to 2012.The study found that when cardiology markets are more concentrated, these kinds of patients are more likely to have heart attacks, visit the emergency department, be readmitted to the hospital or die. These effects of market concentration are large.To illustrate, consider a cardiology market with five practices in which one becomes more dominant — going from just below a 40 percent market share to a 60 percent market share (with the rest of the market split equally across the other four practices). The study found that the chance of having a heart attack would go up 5 to 7 percent as the largest cardiology practice became more dominant. The chance of visiting the emergency department, being readmitted to the hospital or dying would go up similarly.The study also found that greater market concentration led to higher spending. And a different study of family doctors in England found that quality and patient satisfaction increased with competition.For many goods and services, Americans are comfortable with the idea that competition leads to lower prices and better quality. But we often think of health care as different — that it somehow shouldn’t be “market based.” AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie AstorThere was no real doubt what the first question to Senator Amy Klobuchar would be.Backstage at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Tex., where Ms. Klobuchar was the first in a series of presidential candidates to be interviewed on Saturday, the interviewer, Kara Swisher, asked: “Do you want to start with the comb or end with the comb?”“We’re going to start with the comb,” Ms. Swisher, the co-founder of the technology news website Recode and a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, concluded.“The comb” was a reference to a February New York Times article about how Ms. Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, treats her staff in the Senate. In 2008, The Times reported, an aide bought her a salad in an airport but fumbled the plastic utensils. On the plane, Ms. Klobuchar berated the aide, pulled a comb out of her purse and ate the salad with it.“It was me sort of doing a mom thing,” Ms. Klobuchar responded at Saturday’s event, co-sponsored by The Texas Tribune. “I didn’t have a fork. I used a comb to eat a salad very briefly on a plane in a MacGyver move.”The fact that Ms. Klobuchar ate salad with a comb was not the main conclusion of the Times report. She did not mention on Saturday that, after finishing the salad, she handed the comb to the aide and ordered him to clean it.The article, based on interviews with more than two dozen former aides, also included details about how her Senate office employees who took paid parental leave were expected to stay in their job for three times as many weeks as they had taken off — and that if they didn’t, according to an employee handbook, they would be required to pay back the money earned during their leave.In response to the article, Ms. Klobuchar’s office said it had never enforced that policy and would change the handbook. She did not address that on Saturday, and Ms. Swisher did not ask.Ms. Klobuchar, who has previously said she “can be tough on people,” acknowledged — as she has in past responses to reports on her treatment of her staff — that she was “sometimes too tough.” “I can push them too hard,” she said. “I can always do better.”Ms. Swisher then asked if Ms. Klobuchar felt the coverage of her treatment of staff members was sexist, given that many male politicians act similarly.“I’m not going to go there,” she said, adding, “Whatever it is, I just can’t waste my time analyzing it, because the stakes are too high, and I care too much. That’s why I announced my candidacy in the middle of a blizzard by the Mississippi River.”In the rest of the interview, Ms. Klobuchar and Ms. Swisher had wide-ranging discussions on health care, technology, foreign policy and other issues. Ms. Klobuchar expressed support for several policies to lower drug prices, including importing products from Canada (“In Minnesota, we can see Canada from our porch,” she joked); ending the “pay for delay” practice in which big pharmaceutical companies pay manufacturers not to produce generics; and allowing the government to negotiate drug prices with Medicare, a perennial proposal from Democrats.She criticized the relatively short sentence given to the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort in his financial fraud case this week, citing her experience prosecuting white-collar crime and declaring, “You can’t have two systems of justice, one for the rich and powerful and one for everyone else.” She denounced President Trump for his attacks on the news media, saying he “tweets whatever he wants in the morning but doesn’t respect the amendment that allows him to do it.”She also said she disagreed with Representative Ilhan Omar’s recent comments about American politicians’ support for Israel, “because I believe you can be true to your country and advocate for another country, whether it is Israel or Canada or Ethiopia” — but condemned Mr. Trump for emboldening intolerance, including anti-Semitism, and noted Ms. Omar’s own background as a refugee.Asked about a recent proposal by Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, another presidential candidate, to break up big tech companies like Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook, Ms. Klobuchar refused to commit to it. But she endorsed antitrust action and the breakup of monopolies broadly as “one of the governing principles for ensuring that we have a capitalist system.”Ms. Warren also appeared at South by Southwest on Saturday, speaking with Anand Giridharadas of Time magazine. Mr. Giridharadas began the interview by telling everyone in the audience who either worked for or hoped to work for one of those tech giants to stand, and then asking Ms. Warren to explain to them why she wanted to break up their companies.Picking Amazon as her example, Ms. Warren condemned the ability of such giants to, essentially, play on a field they control. Amazon not only runs a marketplace, she said, but uses its vast trove of information about consumers’ behavior in the marketplace to create and promote its own products.“You can be an umpire — a platform — or you can own teams. That’s fine. But you can’t be an umpire and own one of the teams that’s in the game,” she said. “Break those things apart and we will have a much more competitive, robust market in America. That’s how capitalism should work.”“The monopolist will make fewer monopoly profits,” she added. “Boo-hoo.”Pressed on what this outlook said about her philosophical differences with Senator Bernie Sanders, who is running on a democratic socialist platform, Ms. Warren said she wanted capitalism to work better.“There’s an enormous amount to be gained from markets,” she said. “But markets have to have rules. They have to have a cop on the beat. Markets without rules are theft.”As in her stump speeches, Ms. Warren also spoke at length about the systemic effects of racism, especially in worsening economic inequality. In the 1960s, she noted, when redlining and other forms of housing discrimination were legal, the homeownership gap between black and white Americans was 27 percentage points. Today, it is 30 percentage points.“Race matters,” she said. “And until we say so and attack the problem head on, we are not going to fix it.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Reed Abelson and Michael J. de la MercedCentene, a major insurer that has significantly expanded under the Affordable Care Act, is making a bold bet as the Trump administration renews its attacks on the federal health law.The company announced on Wednesday that it had agreed to buy WellCare, a smaller publicly held insurer based in Florida, for about $15.3 billion.The deal would create a health care giant that specialized in offering private health plans under the enormous government programs Medicare and Medicaid. The combined company, with revenues expected to approach $100 billion in 2019, would cover 22 million people in all 50 states.If the deal goes through, the acquisition of WellCare will cement Centene’s dominance in Medicaid coverage, the state-federal program for the poor, as well as in the Obamacare market, where it is the largest player.It would also increase the company’s presence in the growing market for private plans under Medicare, the federal program for seniors.“We will be a leader in Medicaid, Medicare and the health insurance markets,” Michael F. Neidorff, the chief executive of Centene, told investors on Wednesday morning.“We do get a lot of scale,” Mr. Neidorff said later in a telephone interview. Centene has been eager to expand its offerings in Medicare, he said, particularly in plans geared to lower-income adults. “We pick up a good solid Medicare platform,” he said.The Trump administration has been promoting private Medicare Advantage plans, including allowing them to offer additional benefits, and the market has proved lucrative for insurers.Mr. Neidorff added that WellCare would be able to increase its presence in the Obamacare market. WellCare’s chief executive, Ken Burdick, said in a statement, “We are enthusiastic about the opportunity to create a high-performing combined business focused on government-sponsored managed care that will bring benefits to all of our stakeholders.”The deal is the latest in a flurry of mergers among health insurers that are scrambling to better position themselves in a tumultuous time for the industry.Earlier in the week, the Justice Department stunned health care experts and even some Republicans by asking a federal appeals court to invalidate the entire Affordable Care Act. If successful, the lawsuit would largely dismantle the individual market and reverse Medicaid expansion in three dozen states.House Democrats introduced a proposal on Tuesday to bolster the law through a series of provisions like increasing federal subsidies, but there is also talk among Democrats of adopting a much broader “Medicare for all” program. Some proposals supported by 2020 presidential candidates would do away with private insurers altogether.“Everybody is trying to anticipate what the health care environment is going to look like in the next decade,” said Les Funtleyder, a portfolio manager at E Squared who owns shares of Centene. The premise behind expanding Centene’s foothold “is the government is going to play a role regardless of what happens in the U.S.,” he said.The acquisition would help insulate Centene from the continued threats against the federal health law, Mr. Funtleyder added. “It almost doesn’t matter if the A.C.A. is repealed, because somebody is going to manage Medicare and Medicaid,” he said.Unlike other health insurers, Centene has aggressively moved into the volatile Obamacare markets in various states. The company had already become a major presence in Medicaid through its purchase of other plans, like New York’s Fidelis Care. Mr. Neidorff, who would remain as chief executive of the combined companies, played down the political risks facing the two companies. He dismissed the idea that the health care law would succumb to the current constitutional battle in the courts or to some Republican lawmakers’ renewed calls to repeal the law.“The Republicans lost the House on this issue,” he said.Legal experts and others agree that the federal law has proved resilient, despite the myriad legal challenges and steps by Republicans to weaken it. Most believe other courts, possibly including the Supreme Court, will uphold the law.Public support has also significantly increased, said Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at Georgetown University, who has closely followed the law’s travails. “When it’s most on the ropes, it’s been the most popular,” she said.Mr. Neidorff also discounted the idea that the Democrats would adopt a sweeping Medicare for all proposal that would eliminate private insurers. The Democrats, including the party’s leadership, “know they can’t afford it,” he said. Lawmakers could also expand both Medicare and Medicaid using private insurance companies.Investors reacted warily to the news of the deal, sending Centene’s stock down nearly 9 percent before it recovered to close at $52.12, down 5 percent from the previous day. Investors may have been disappointed that a bigger insurer, like Humana, would now be unlikely to seek to acquire Centene, said Ana Gupte, a stock analyst for SVB Leerink.The two insurers also have some overlapping businesses that could raise antitrust concerns, Ms. Gupte said. “From a regulatory standpoint, it’s not a given,” she said, noting that “the odds are in their favor.”But Ms. Gupte also said the political environment might give investors pause.“There’s a lot of uncertainty,” she said, as Republican and Democratic lawmakers take strikingly different stances over what the health care system should look like heading into the 2020 presidential race. “It’s constantly being whiplashed from one end of the political spectrum to another.”Under the terms of the deal, which also includes about $2 billion in debt, Centene would pay a fixed amount of its own shares and $120 in cash for each WellCare share. That amounts to about $305.39 per WellCare share based on closing stock prices on Tuesday, or about 32 percent above WellCare’s closing price. On Wednesday, WellCare stock closed at $259.81, reflecting some investor skepticism over the deal.The combined company would be based in Centene’s home of St. Louis, and Centene shareholders would own about 71 percent of the business.The deal is expected to close by June 30, 2020, pending the approval of regulators and both companies’ shareholders.AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]New York City will spend at least $100 million to ensure that undocumented immigrants and others who cannot qualify for insurance can receive medical treatment, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced on Tuesday, seeking to insert a city policy into two contentious national debates.The mayor has styled himself, in his 2017 re-election campaign and during his second term, as a progressive leader on issues like education and health care, and as a bulwark against the policies of President Trump, particularly on immigration.In making the announcement, first on national television, Mr. de Blasio appeared to be trying to heighten that contrast and thrust his efforts on behalf of undocumented New Yorkers into the national debate over immigration, hours before Mr. Trump was to go on television Tuesday night to make his case for a border wall.“Everyone is guaranteed the right to health care, everyone,” Mr. de Blasio said during a news conference at Lincoln Hospital in the Bronx. “We are saying the word guarantee because we can make it happen.”New York City already provides health care to the uninsured and the undocumented through its hospital system, a roughly $8 billion behemoth whose history of service to the poor, regardless of an ability to pay, can be traced to the founding of Bellevue Hospital in the 18th century. A person without medical insurance has long been able to go to a city emergency room and get care, free of charge, or to seek a primary-care physician.But the financially challenged system did not work well to connect patients to doctors, Mr. de Blasio said. He promised a streamlined approach — complete with a hotline and dedicated membership card — and one that would be focused on the primary-care doctor, rather than the emergency room.“We were only covering them in the sense that they could go to the emergency room,” the mayor said. “It was not a way to live.”The announcement came as proponents of universal health care coverage have increasingly looked to local governments, rather than Congress, to make meaningful progress in the short term. Also on Tuesday, Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington said he would seek to create a public option in the state.A day before, Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, on his first day in office, announced his plan to move toward a single-payer system for that state. As mayor of San Francisco, Mr. Newsom oversaw the creation of a health care system in that city in 2007.The top health official who created the San Francisco program, Mitchell H. Katz, is now the head of New York City’s hospital system and will oversee the city’s effort, branded as NYC Care. “It’s a much bigger and more compassionate vision,” said Mr. Katz, comparing New York’s proposed program to the much smaller one in San Francisco.The mayor was quick to say that the plan would not be a substitute for any universal health care at the state level or a national single-payer plan. But, aides said, it was something the city could do immediately and on its own, without approval from the State Legislature, which is weighing some form of universal health insurance for New York State.Indeed, the mayor’s proposal is a mix of insurance and direct spending, and Mr. de Blasio said it would take about two years to get it fully running. The city already has a kind of public option for health insurance for low-income New Yorkers, through an insurance plan run by city hospitals known as MetroPlus.The new proposal would improve that coverage, which already insures some 516,000 people, and aim to reach more of those who are eligible, such as the young and uninsured, and others who qualify but have not applied.It would also provide additional direct city spending, at least $100 million per year when fully implemented, officials said, for the city’s hospital system to support care for those without insurance. The city estimates the uninsured population to be about 600,000 people, including as many as 300,000 undocumented residents. A major component of that effort would be improving customer service, including the phone line, to help those with questions about their care.Part of the goal of NYC Care, aides to the mayor said, was to direct people to medical care earlier — before they seek more expensive services in an emergency room — while providing them with better health care.The effort is also aimed at getting some of the so-called young-and-invincible uninsured population into the health care system, either through the city’s insurance plan or through its hospital system.“It appears that the mayor is ramping up outreach so that more people can avail themselves of services, regardless of ability to pay, that have been made available to them by Health and Hospitals for decades,” said Andrew Rein, the president of the nonpartisan Citizens Budget Commission. “The details are critical,” he added. “We still need to learn more.”The $100 million would go to both establishing the customer service component and hiring additional doctors and nurses, but officials could not provide a breakdown of how much would be spent on each. Indeed, details of how those seeking care could do so under the new plan were not immediately clear, nor was an exact start date.Mr. Katz said that the rollout would begin in the Bronx and that the city would start enrolling people in the NYC Care program this summer. The borough was chosen because the health care needs were greatest, he said.Such endeavors can be difficult for the city to implement quickly. Mr. de Blasio oversaw the creation of a municipal identification card for undocumented immigrants in his first term. But last week, he said that an ambitious goal of providing MetroCards to about 800,000 residents whose incomes are below the federal poverty line would fall far short of that goal initially, starting this month with cards for only about 30,000 people, or about 4 percent of the total.Mr. de Blasio said that the NYC Care system will also employ what amounted to a membership card in the city program. “They will have a card that will empower them to go to that doctor whenever they need,” he said.The city’s hospital system has been under severe financial strain and running deficits for years. The current financial plan for city hospitals anticipates budget shortfalls of more than $156 million in 2018, increasing to $1.8 billion in 2022, according to the city’s Independent Budget Office.Melanie Hartzog, the city’s budget director, took issue with those figures during the news conference. She said that the hospital system — which has received significant infusions of city money during the de Blasio administration — was now in “a very cash-strong position.” She said more details would be provided during a forthcoming budget briefing.Advocates for immigrants and health care analysts were encouraged by the plan, even if many were still looking to Albany, where debate over health care is likely to consume the coming months.“We hope it is a step toward making larger changes at the state level,” said Rebecca Telzak, director of health programs at Make the Road New York, an immigrant advocacy group supportive of the mayor’s plan. “Ending here is not enough.”Follow J. David Goodman on Twitter: @jdavidgoodmanAdvertisementSupported byThe three leading G.O.P. health care proposals all involve block grants. Those plans are hard to square with the president’s promises to lower premiums and deductibles.By Margot Sanger-KatzWe don’t know what will emerge as President Trump’s plan to replace Obamacare, which he has promised to unveil immediately after the 2020 elections. But he has recently endorsed several proposals, and they could provide clues.Over the last two weeks, he has sought to re-emphasize health care as an issue, after a set of bruising legislative defeats in 2017. He directed the Justice Department not to defend the Affordable Care Act against a legal challenge. And he issued statements and tweets calling for Republicans to become “the party of health care,” at a moment when many of his party’s leaders had hoped to focus on different issues.He also began reprising various promises about what a future plan to repeal and replace parts of the Affordable Care Act might achieve. The plan, short on specifics, will come with “far lower premiums (costs) & deductibles,” he said this week in a series of tweets. He promised that any Republican health plan would protect Americans with pre-existing health conditions, a major concern of voters that Democrats effectively exploited in the 2018 midterm elections.After his election, President Trump made similar promises, saying that the Republican proposal would be “far less expensive and far better” than Obamacare. The legislation that came later, and earned his endorsement, would have made insurance less expensive, but only for certain groups of young, high-income, healthy Americans. The bills would have also eliminated coverage for millions of people by scaling back Medicaid, and would have made it harder for those with pre-existing illnesses — and those who are older with low incomes — to find meaningful affordable options if they didn’t get insurance from work.The three senators he has chosen to lead the effort — Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, John Barrasso of Wyoming and Rick Scott of Florida — have so far also declined to point to many specifics. When asked about an Obamacare replacement this week, they mentioned their more modest bills to reduce health care costs in the emergency room and at the drugstore. (A fourth senator the president has mentioned, the majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has been even more clear that he has little interest in pursuing comprehensive health care legislation.)One clue to Mr. Trump’s thinking is the choice of Mr. Cassidy. Along with Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, he was the author of a legislative plan that received some scrutiny in 2017 but never came up for a vote. Another hint can be found in the president’s own budget, released just before his reinvigorated health care push. A third is a draft proposal developed by a group of conservative Washington policy groups.The president has spoken fondly several times about this proposal, which did not have enough support in Congress to advance to a vote. It would eliminate current programs funding Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion, which covers the working poor, and insurance subsidies helping low- and middle-income Americans buy their insurance. Instead, that money would be grouped together, then parceled out to states to use in the service of health care programs they favor.The legislation attaches some rules to how the money can be used — it must go toward health care, for example — but its main goal is to provide states with maximum flexibility to develop local and innovative solutions. (Some experts worry that states could struggle to develop such plans on the bill’s abbreviated timetable.)That flexibility would allow states, if they so chose, to waive Obamacare’s rules that plans must cover a standard set of medical benefits, and that insurers must charge the same prices to customers with different health histories. It would be easy for states to circumvent current protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. That ability would be at odds with the president’s recent promises to protect such rules. The bill would also restructure the Medicaid program, even for populations that were enrolled in the program before Obamacare.The bill’s formula for allocating money among the states would also lead to big redistributions, generally taking money away from states that have expanded Medicaid, toward those that have not. It would also restrict the growth of the block grants over time. Those funding formulas, while technical, make a big difference in the impact of the program. It would result in substantial funding shortfalls for several large states nearly immediately, and leave nearly every state in a funding crunch over the long term.Because the 2020 White House budget was developed and published by the White House itself, it is perhaps the most useful clue about how the president imagines a world without Obamacare. Like the Graham-Cassidy proposal, it includes block grants to the states to replace the Obamacare coverage expansion, and it replaces the remainder of Medicaid with a set of fixed payments to states.But the rate at which the different grants would grow over time would be even smaller than under the legislation, “to make the system more efficient.”The budget is vague about what sorts of insurance regulations would be allowed, but it does note that a tenth of funds would need to be set aside for people with pre-existing conditions, a sign that states would be allowed to exclude such people from the mainstream insurance markets.A group of conservative health policy experts, including the Heritage Foundation, has developed a health care proposal that shares a basic structure with the two systems described above: It would hand states blocks of money and a few rules, and encourage them to develop their own health care systems.The rules in the conservative plan differ a bit from those in Graham-Cassidy. The plan would require that government-subsidized systems offer every American a choice of a private health plan, a requirement that would probably foreclose a liberal state from enacting a single-payer program and that might require restructuring of some state-run Medicaid programs.The plan shies away from specifying funding formulas. It doesn’t say how the block of money should be divvied up among the states, though it says that states with more low-income residents should get a bigger share. It also doesn’t specify precisely how quickly the pot of money should grow over time.Like the budget proposal, it nods to concerns about Americans with pre-existing conditions by encouraging states to develop special programs, like high-risk pools, to insure people with expensive health needs. But it also encourages insurance strategies, like discounts for young customers, or stripped-down benefit plans, that would tend to make mainstream insurance less useful for people with serious health needs.The proposal also leaves the legacy Medicaid program as is. That choice neutralizes one possible political line of attack. But it also substantially diminishes the program’s possible cost savings.The court case over the Affordable Care Act will be decided on the judiciary’s timetable, so it’s not clear how long the White House may have to develop a replacement plan. But, since it certainly has at least months, there is time to develop some new proposal more aligned with the president’s recent promises.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

FEB. 8, 2019

Men who lived alone tended to die earlier than those who didn't, particularly from this cause: CancerCardiovascular diseaseDiabetesAlzheimer's diseaseVeterinarians say that nearly half the dogs they see are overweight or obese. What percent of owners acknowledge their pets are fat?8 percent17 percent26 percent44 percentA shortage of the drug buspirone has left patients distressed because there are no good substitutes. Buspirone is used to treat:DiabetesHigh blood pressureAnxietyMigrainesMen who exercised a lot — the equivalent of running about six miles a day — showed these heart changes:High levels of calcium in the arteriesBuildup of arterial plaquesA decreased risk of heart attackAll of the aboveCompared to poorer Americans, wealthy Americans were more likely to buy all of the following medications except:AntibioticsBotox injectionsDrugs for mental health disordersBirth control pillsA large review of studies found that this vitamin may help ward off dementia:B vitaminsVitamin CVitamin DThe review found that no vitamin or mineral supplements were proven effective to boost brain healthScreen use at bedtime may impair children's quality of life, a new study found. Screen use was particularly disruptive:When the lights were onIn a dark roomAdvertisementSupported byBy Brad WolvertonColleges are struggling to keep up with an increase in requests for mental health counseling. Many have hired additional staff members and are experimenting with new approaches to treatment.When Elizabeth Gong-Guy was named director of U.C.L.A.’s counseling and psychological services in 2005, the university was providing mental health services to less than 10 percent of its students. A decade later, when she moved into a different role, as executive director of U.C.L.A. campus and student resilience, more than 20 percent were under the university’s care.Seeing no end to the growth, U.C.L.A. became an early adopter of internet-based screenings and online mental health treatment. The university has also invested in “resilience peers” who are not licensed to provide counseling but who offer a release valve for stressed-out students.As part of a major research study, U.C.L.A. students can enroll in a six- to eight-week online program that teaches skills to combat anxiety and depression, working alongside a trained peer. The university’s goal: finding the most effective interventions for the largest number of students as quickly as possible.Nivi Ahlawat, a senior neuroscience major, tapped the university’s online resources to help her deal with an incident in her personal life. After using the program, she said she was encouraged to start a mindfulness practice and enroll in yoga and art classes to help reduce her anxiety. She has also served as a resilience peer, an experience that has influenced her career path.“This program fundamentally changed who I am and how I approach my life,” said Ms. Ahlawat, who plans to pursue graduate work in genetic counseling. “I may not remember the structures of all the intermediates of the glycolysis pathway I learned in biochemistry class. But I’ll remember what I’ve learned about active listening, motivational interviewing and mindfulness intervention for the rest of my life.”Kent State’s impetus to improve mental health services came from broad university mandates. The university, in Ohio, said it had added nine clinical staff positions across its eight campuses as part of a presidential push to emphasize student and staff mental health and wellness.The university has provided mental health training to more than 700 students, faculty and staff members, and created programs to help populations that do not traditionally seek counseling. Those efforts helped Kent State win a “healthy campus award ” last year from Active Minds, a national advocacy group that supports mental health awareness and education.Many students may not enjoy the benefits of therapy until they overcome more pressing obstacles, said Katy Troester-Trate, director of the health and wellness center at Jefferson Community College. The two-year institution in Watertown, N.Y., has many low-income and first-generation students, some of whom arrive on campus without basics like soap and toothpaste.“If you can’t afford groceries or safe care for your children, it’s hard to work on higher level things,” said Ms. Troester-Trate, a licensed social worker who keeps snacks in her desk for students.Her team has developed what she calls a “wraparound” model, providing an assortment of services outside of traditional talk therapy that help students address their overall well-being. Students can find many of those services at the college’s health and wellness center, which houses counseling offices alongside child-care assistance, a campus food pantry and more.Miranda Santos, a 24-year-old single parent, sought help there last year after failing a nursing class and having to repeat it during a semester-long weekend program. She received vouchers to help pay for child care and a food basket at Thanksgiving. She graduated last fall, with a job at an opioid-treatment clinic.AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. Health care is off the table, but in Democrats’ war chest. Above, Democrats at a health care rally at the Supreme Court on Tuesday.President Trump announced that Republicans would drop efforts to overhaul health care until after the 2020 election. The move, set in motion by the usually sharp strategist Mitch McConnell, ensures the issue will be central in the campaigning. (Note: A new study found that Americans borrowed $88 billion to pay for health care last year.)Mr. Trump also had words for Puerto Rico. He cast its leaders as “incompetent and corrupt,” increasing partisan tensions over aid bills blocked in Congress. Democrats object to the limits on aid to the U.S. territory, while Republicans insist on more aid for Midwest farmers.Puerto Ricans have been dumbfounded. Their governor tweeted back: “Mr. President, once again, we are not your adversaries, we are your citizens.”_____2. Joe Biden’s physical style with friends and strangers was well known in Washington.But now he is facing accusations of unwelcome touching from a second woman, even as he is expected to announce whether he’ll run in the 2020 presidential election. Our political reporter unpacks where Mr. Biden stands in the modern age of #MeToo.From Opinion, Jennifer Senior argues that dismissing women’s ideas is a more pervasive problem than sexual harassment.Separately, our executive editor, Dean Baquet, and our top newsroom lawyer, David McCraw, are discussing press freedom at 7 p.m. Eastern as part of our TimesTalks series. Join here for a YouTube stream, or go to @nytimes to watch the livestream on Twitter, where you can leave your questions._____3. Prime Minister Theresa May has been driven to gambling.In a surprise announcement, the British leader, pictured above today, said she would seek another extension for Brexit and would work with the opposition Labour Party to come up with a joint plan.That would involve negotiating with the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn and shifting toward a softer Brexit. The E.U.’s chief Brexit negotiator warned Britain’s Parliament that a chaotic “no-deal” exit was becoming “day after day more likely.”But don’t call British lawmakers one-note. They simply couldn’t ignore a nearly naked climate-change protest in Parliament’s viewing gallery on Monday._____4. After Lion Air Flight 610 plunged into the Java Sea last October, killing all 189 people onboard, urgent questions confronted the aviation industry. Above, parts recovered from the doomed flight.After another Boeing 737 Max 8 crashed five months later, it became clear that Lion Air, Boeing, subcontractors, investigators and regulators all put up barriers that made it difficult to share information about what went wrong, leaving many in the dark. Our reporters uncovered a climate of distrust and a lack of communication.Separately, Boeing’s software update for its troubled 737 Max jetliners has been delayed for several weeks before it can be submitted to the F.A.A._____5. India’s antisatellite test is wreaking havoc in space.NASA said that debris created by India’s test last week, above, in which it shot down its own satellite with a rocket, could threaten the International Space Station. Six crew members are currently aboard.The U.S. space agency identified 400 pieces of debris from the test, some of which pose a risk to the station because of the speed at which they travel, up to 29,000 miles per hour.“That kind of activity is not compatible with the future of human spaceflight that we need to see have happen,” NASA’s administrator said Monday._____6. Chicago became the largest American city to elect a black woman as its mayor.Lori Lightfoot, a lawyer and former federal prosector, will replace Rahm Emanuel. When she takes office in May, she will also be the city’s first openly gay mayor.Ms. Lightfoot won as a political outsider in a city that has often elected insiders.And in Ferguson, Mo., Lesley McSpadden, whose son, Michael Brown, was killed there, is eyeing a seat on the City Council. Should she win, a seat would give her a role in overseeing the very police department that killed her son._____7. Was the only oil well drilled in Alaska’s Arctic refuge a potential gusher or a dud?The findings were a closely guarded secret for three decades. Now, as the Trump administration plans to open the area to drilling, we found answers in a Cleveland courthouse that could embolden opponents and prompt second thoughts among potential lease bidders.“The discovery well was worthless,” said a retired lawyer who was involved in a long-since-forgotten lawsuit filed there in 1987._____8. For your leisure time:The Australian stand-up comic Hannah Gadsby declared she was quitting comedy in her hit Netflix special last year, “Nanette.” Last week, she returned to the Australian stage with “Douglas,” a new show named after her dog.In advance of her American tour this month, she chatted with us about receiving an autism diagnosis late in life, and what it’s like getting back on stage.And we have 10 new books to watch for in April and a Q. and A. with Lori Gottlieb, author and psychotherapist, who dishes about what your therapist is thinking about in your therapy session._____9. Our 52 Places Traveler played tourist in his own city.Walking the length of Manhattan (it took more than eight hours), Sebastian Modak noticed details he had missed for years and faced a rude awakening when he came upon the city’s largest development in decades, Hudson Yards. Entering Central Park, pictured above, made him “ecstatic.”But he couldn’t help gravitating to the familiar.“All of a sudden, this megacity, one that can be so elusive to so many — even me — felt a whole lot like home,” he wrote._____10. Finally, does the air fryer deliver on its golden promise?Our food columnist Melissa Clark had to find out. The fast-selling appliance, celebrated for its faux-frying, low-mess, odorless ability, has been panned in review circles.She took on French fries, chicken wings, brussels sprouts, doughnuts and jalapeño poppers, to name a few.“Here’s the thing I realized about the air fryer,” she concluded. “‘Frying’ is the thing it does worst of all.”We hope you have a more appetizing night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Paid For And Posted By Kuwait FundAdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — Even before Democrats finish drafting bills to create a single-payer health care system, the health care and insurance industries have assembled a small army of lobbyists to kill “Medicare for all,” an idea that is mocked publicly but is being greeted privately with increasing seriousness.Doctors, hospitals, drug companies and insurers are intent on strangling Medicare for all before it advances from an aspirational slogan to a legislative agenda item. They have hired a top lieutenant in Hillary Clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign to spearhead the effort. And their tactics will show Democrats what they are up against as the party drifts to the left on health care.They also demonstrate how entrenched the Democrats’ last big health care victory, the Affordable Care Act, has become in the nation’s health care system.The lobbyists’ message is simple: The Affordable Care Act is working reasonably well and should be improved, not repealed by Republicans or replaced by Democrats with a big new public program. More than 155 million Americans have employer-sponsored health coverage. They like it, by and large, and should be allowed to keep it.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Andy Mills, Clare Toeniskoetter and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Paige CowettAs the idea gains traction in mainstream circles, we look at its roots in progressive American politics.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today:archived recording 1I think “Medicare for all” is the right solution.archived recording 2I support “Medicare for all.”archived recording 3Oh, I believe that we need Medicare for all.archived recording 4We need to make sure that every American is able to get health care.archived recording 5We need to have “Medicare for all.”archived recording 6I believe we should have “Medicare for all.”archived recording 7This country will pass a “Medicare for all” single-payer health care system. [CROWD CHEERING]michael barbaro“Medicare for all.” It’s Wednesday, March 13. Margot, the 2020 Democratic primary, which is now officially underway, is very much starting to feel like the “Medicare for all” primary. Where does this idea, “Medicare for all,” come from?margot sanger-katzWell, I think it actually makes sense to go all the way back and think about the origin of Medicare. [MUSIC] This is actually an idea that has been kicking around in progressive politics for a very long time. It had a brief moment in the Progressive Era in 1910.michael barbaroMargot Sanger-Katz covers health care policy for The Times.margot sanger-katzThen, I think the next serious moment was actually in the New Deal.archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt)Two months ago, as you know, we were facing serious problems. The country was dying by inches.margot sanger-katzAnd if you think about what the F.D.R. administration was trying to do, they were trying to build a sort of basic public social safety net for people, to protect them and prevent them from falling through the cracks.archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt)First, we are giving the opportunity of employment to a quarter of a million of the unemployed.margot sanger-katzAnd health care was something that they considered including in the package of reforms at that time when they made social security and a lot of these other programs, but it was too controversial, and it actually dropped out of that proposal.michael barbaroAnd why would it be controversial in the New Deal period, when it seems like the idea of government taking care of people is very much in vogue?margot sanger-katzI think the main reason why health care at that time was so controversial is because doctors were really against it. Doctors were these small business owners, people paid them directly for medical care, and they really didn’t want the government getting involved in their business and, perhaps, making it harder for them to make a living.archived recording (harry truman)We are rightly proud of the high standards of medical care we know how to provide in the United States.margot sanger-katzSo the next American president to really make a go at this was Harry Truman —archived recording (harry truman)The fact is, however, that most of our people cannot afford to pay for the care they need.margot sanger-katz— who wanted to create a universal health care program.archived recording (harry truman)Our ultimate aim must be a comprehensive insurance system to protect all our people equally against insecurity and ill health.margot sanger-katzAnd again, he really was stopped.archived recording (john f. kennedy)I believe the epic in which we’re engaged is worth the time and effort of all of us.margot sanger-katzThen, J.F.K. made a big move to try to expand government health insurance, at least for the elderly.archived recording (john f. kennedy)This is a campaign to help people meet their responsibility.margot sanger-katzThere was a view that while health insurance was starting to become available as a way for working people to protect themselves, that once you got old and you didn’t have a job that came with insurance and you started to get sick — that no one wanted to sell you insurance. And so he proposed this idea of having a health care program that would be financed by payroll taxes like social security, but he couldn’t get it through.archived recording (lyndon johnson)No longer will older Americans be denied the healing miracle of modern medicine.margot sanger-katzIt was only when Lyndon Johnson became president afterwards and after the Democrats took big majorities of Congress —archived recording (lyndon johnson)No longer will illness crush and destroy the savings that they have so carefully put away over a lifetime.margot sanger-katz— that they were finally able to pass legislation that established the program that we now call Medicare.archived recording (lyndon johnson)And no longer will this nation refuse the hand of justice to those who have given a lifetime of service and wisdom and labor to the progress of this progressive country. [MUSIC]michael barbaroAnd what was Medicare at this moment when President Johnson signs it into law?margot sanger-katzThe idea was that everyone, once they turned age 65, if they had worked and paid payroll taxes, would be able to have government health insurance. They would have access to insurance that would pay for their hospital care and further visits to doctors.michael barbaroSo it took four presidents to pass a version of government-run health care. And even then, it is afforded to a narrow group of Americans.margot sanger-katzThat’s right. Around the same time that Congress passed Medicare, they also created a program called Medicaid that served the very poor in America. But essentially, there was a huge group of Americans in the middle who were left out of both programs.michael barbaroAnd why is that, Margot? Why is this idea during this period of nationalized medicine, government-run health care — why is it being limited to such small groups of Americans?margot sanger-katzI think the idea has always been pretty politically controversial. There are a couple of different threads of it. One is that industry doesn’t like it. So doctors are the kind of most vocal group in this period. But over time, we also have hospitals, and drug companies, and other parts of the health care industry that are wary of the government getting involved and maybe taking their dollars away from them. I think also, especially in this period, there is a real resistance to socialism and this idea that it’s not American to have the government providing these basic benefits, that the free market should work to do it instead.michael barbaroBut what about the people who are being covered by government-run health care programs like Medicare? Do they like it? Is it working well for them in this period — the 1960s, the 1970s?margot sanger-katzMedicare is a uniquely popular government program. People really love it. It provides them with a lot of financial security. People pay taxes into the program, so they feel like it’s an earned benefit. It’s something that they deserve. But meanwhile, everyone else is in a health insurance program that is getting a little bit more rickety. There are some people who get really great insurance through their work, but there are a lot of other people who are sort of falling through the cracks — if they’re between jobs, if they work for a company that doesn’t provide insurance. The system for people in Medicare is that everyone gets it and they all get the same thing. The system for the rest of us is, it really depends on who you are, and who you work for, and what your financial situation is.archived recording (ted kennedy)I’ve been able to receive it for myself and for my family. Just like all of us who are on the tip of the iceberg, way up high in the health care services.margot sanger-katzAnd because of that, there are a bunch of proposals over the years to try to reconsider a more national health care system.archived recording (ted kennedy)But I want every delegate at this convention to understand that as long as I’m a vote —margot sanger-katzTed Kennedy has a proposal in 1970.archived recording (ted kennedy)— and as long as I have a voice in the United States Senate, it’s going to be for that Democratic platform plank that provides decent quality health care. [CROWD CHEERING] North and south, east and west.margot sanger-katzIn the 1990s, the Clintons have an idea to try to achieve universal health care. But largely for the same reasons that we had trouble with this before — concerns about socialism, industry opposition — those proposals essentially get batted down.michael barbaroAnd so what happens next?archived recording (barack obama)Six months ago today, a big part of the Affordable Care Act kicked in.margot sanger-katzSo I would say the next big thing that happens in this timeline is that we get the Affordable Care Act in 2010.archived recording (barack obama)And millions of Americans finally had the same chance to buy quality, affordable health care, and the peace of mind that comes with it, as everybody else.margot sanger-katzThere is a brief discussion among Democrats at that time of trying to do a single-payer system, a more universal system, where everyone gets something like Medicare, but that really, even at that time, is very much a fringe view among Democrats. The consensus idea that President Obama and the Democrats in Congress want to do is something that sort of expands on our current system, where you still have a lot of different private insurers. People have a lot of choice.archived recording (barack obama)7.1 million Americans have now signed up for private insurance plans through these marketplaces. [CROWD CHEERING]margot sanger-katzAnd on the socialism side, even though this was largely a private market program, it still was susceptible to those kinds of criticisms. And we heard Republicans talking about it as a government takeover, talking about as a socialist plot.archived recordingThis has to be ripped out by its roots. This is government taking over the entire health insurance industry.margot sanger-katzBut what it tries to do is kind of patch up the holes in the existing system. And one of the ways that it does that is by vastly expanding Medicaid, that program we talked about for poor people. A lot more people get coverage through Medicaid, and then the government helps people who don’t get insurance through work with financial subsidies that allow them to buy their own insurance.michael barbaroSo with the Affordable Care Act, once again, the concept of government-run health care is proposed and ultimately tossed aside.margot sanger-katzYes and no. I think you have to see the Affordable Care Act as a sort of compromise. As a moderate proposal that expands some government health care, expands some private insurance, keeps a lot of what already exists and doesn’t take things away from people. But I also think that it did change Americans’ expectations about what the role for government was in health care, and also what kind of health care they were entitled to. So, you know, we’re moving closer to the idea that everyone should be able to have health insurance, even if they’re poor, even if they don’t get insurance through work. And there are certain guarantees in the Affordable Care Act, like the guarantee that people who have pre-existing health conditions should be able to buy insurance —michael barbaroRight.margot sanger-katz— that really didn’t exist before.michael barbaroSo even though with the Affordable Care Act we didn’t end up with government-run health care, we end up with more government in our health care, which it sounds like is beginning to change people’s perception of what the government’s role should be when it comes to medicine.margot sanger-katzExactly.archived recording 1Who are you guys here to see?archived recording 2Bernie!archived recording 1Who feels the Bern? [CROWD CHEERING] [MUSIC]margot sanger-katzAnd I think this lays the groundwork for Bernie Sanders when he comes forward with a proposal in 2016 that he calls Medicare for all.archived recording (bernie sanders)We must fight to make sure that we pass a “Medicare for all” health care system. [CROWD CHEERING]margot sanger-katzMedicare for all builds on the idea that everyone should have access to affordable health insurance, but it kind of turbo-charges that idea. “Medicare for all” says everyone gets the same health care.michael barbaroHm.archived recording (bernie sanders)I happen to believe — and I know not everybody agrees with me — I believe that health care is a right of all people.archived recordingExcuse me, where did that right come from, in your mind?archived recording (bernie sanders)Being a human being. Being a human being.margot sanger-katzSenator Sanders’s idea is that everyone in America would have access to health insurance that’s provided by the government that covers a wide array of medical services, and for which they do not have to pay any money when they go to the doctor.michael barbaroWow. And what’s the reaction to Sanders’s proposal?margot sanger-katzIt has a really mixed perception. So I think that it really speaks to some people who respond to the moral case that he’s making and to people who have really felt left behind by our current system, who are struggling with high health care costs or fighting with their insurance companies. So I think it really galvanized his campaign. It’s a central theme. Obviously, he really outperforms everyone’s expectations in the Democratic primary.michael barbaroMm-hmm.margot sanger-katzAt the same time, I think that the kinds of people who were uncomfortable with the Affordable Care Act, who were uncomfortable with some of these more universal health care systems in the past think it’s sort of a laughable idea. It’s really, really far from where we are right now, it’s far from anything that’s really been debated in a serious way in the Congress, and it would be extremely expensive to implement. It would require huge tax increases. And that is the kind of political debate that doesn’t typically get very far when it’s outside the confines of a campaign.michael barbaroSo we know Sanders loses the primary, and so his campaign ends. What happens to “Medicare for all” after that?margot sanger-katzIt’s really interesting. “Medicare for all” gets more popular than ever. So, you know, it’s not just that Sanders loses the primary to Hillary Clinton, who wants to do something much more moderate on health care, but also Hillary Clinton loses the election to Donald Trump.archived recording (donald trump)I’m going to repeal and replace your disastrous Obamacare. [CROWD CHEERING] Much cheaper, much better.margot sanger-katzSo you might think that this sort of really left-wing idea of doing a universal health care would just go away, but instead it starts to gain in popularity, and we see this in a couple of different ways. Public opinion surveys show steady and modest increases in the number of Americans who seem interested in this idea when they’re asked about it. And the other thing that happens is we start to see way more Democrats in Congress signing on to proposals like the Sanders proposal. So Sanders himself had a bill that he had brought forward in previous Congresses and, basically, no one wanted to co-sign it. And then he brought it again in 2017, and all of a sudden he had, I think, 16 co-sponsors, including lots of really ambitious Democratic senators that we expected to run for president, and we now see are running for president. And there’s a bill in the House that had been introduced year after year with very few co-sponsors, and all of a sudden, again, in 2017, we saw the majority of Democrats in the House were signing onto this bill.michael barbaroHow do you explain that shift?margot sanger-katzI definitely think that Sanders was part of it. And if you talk to him, he definitely thinks he was part of it — that he really brought this into the mainstream of our political conversation. But I think there are a couple of other factors. One is that after Trump became president, the first thing he tried to do in legislation was repeal the Affordable Care Act. And, you know, Republicans had a lot of indications that was going to be a good idea. Their voters had been telling them for years that they really didn’t like Obamacare and they wanted it to go away. But actually, that turned out to be kind of politically perilous for the Republicans.archived recordingAnd today, the president summoned G.O.P. lawmakers to the White House for the second time in less than a month, after two versions of a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare failed.margot sanger-katzThey failed multiple attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and its popularity got higher than ever. And there was kind of this boost among Democratic activists over health care — that they started to really care about the issue, and get organized, and get angry.archived recordingMany of the Republican congressmen who held town halls during this recess have heard the wrath of many of their constituents.margot sanger-katzAnd I think some of those people are bringing new energy to the single-payer moment.archived recordingIn North Dakota, congressman Kevin Cramer heard from a woman with a disabled child. She asked him not to repeal Obamacare, with her family facing bankruptcy. This is what $3.5 million looks like, and she’s two years old.margot sanger-katzAnd then the third thing that I think that happens is the Democrats are kind of on their heels. They’re not in control of Congress anymore. They’re not in control of the White House. They don’t actually have to govern. And so I think that makes them a little bit more open to something that’s more idealistic, that’s more aspirational.michael barbaroMm-hmm.margot sanger-katzWhen they’re in the minority, I think they can say, we want to tell you what our values are. We want to tell you what our dreams are and what we care about — equity, and we care about fairness. And they don’t really have to worry about the dirty little details.archived recordingWhen our congressmen took a party-line vote that would have canceled health insurance for thousands of Virginians, I knew I had to run.margot sanger-katzThat’s exactly what we saw happen in the midterms.archived recordingHealth care affects everyone. Making it into a partisan battle makes things worse.margot sanger-katzWe saw a lot of Democrats all across the country running with health care as their primary message.archived recordingI’m voting for Mikie Sherrill because I know she’ll like fight for me and my family, my daughter, and for the A.C.A.margot sanger-katzAnd it was very effective. They took over a lot of seats in the House that had previously been held by Republicans. But I think the exact message that they drew from this is a little bit mixed. I think a lot of them felt, oh, people really just want me to protect what they already have — that we have a very good message in protecting the Affordable Care Act. But some of these Democrats who won running on health care felt like this is a reason to go forward, to push further than the Affordable Care Act because the electorate really responds to this issue. And I think you can really see this now as the 2020 presidential field is starting to heat up. Senator Sanders, obviously, continues to support it. Cory Booker, the senator from New Jersey, is in favor of the Sanders proposal. Elizabeth Warren was a co-sponsor of Senator Sanders’ bill in the last Congress. But it is not universal among Democratic candidates. We saw Amy Klobuchar, a Democratic senator from Minnesota, who said, this is too aspirational. It’s too pie in the sky. We need to focus on more incremental changes that are more politically possible. They all want to make some increase for the role of government — try to have there be more health care available for more people, to make it more affordable. But there is this range from little technocratic fixes to let’s do single-payer.michael barbaroWell, let’s talk about that. What does it mean when a candidate for the Democratic presidential primary in this moment says “Medicare for all“? What are the actual proposals on the table?margot sanger-katzWho knows? I mean, we are so vague right now. I think when Bernie Sanders says “Medicare for all,” we know what he means because he talked about it in 2016 and he has a legislative proposal. I think with a lot of these other candidates, they are kind of latching onto a brand name that seems to be pretty popular with the public, that reminds them of Medicare, which a lot of people like. But we’re not in the phase of the campaign yet where we have really specific proposals that tell us exactly what it is that they want to do.michael barbaroTo the degree that Medicare for all is an actual, credible proposal like what has been offered by Senator Bernie Sanders, how practical is it? How expensive would it be to create? How disruptive would it be to the current health care system?margot sanger-katzI think it’s almost hard to underestimate how disruptive it would be. Just to give one example, right now we have private health insurance companies that cover most Americans. These are big corporations. They’re among the largest and most —michael barbaroAetna, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield.margot sanger-katzYeah. These companies would essentially be wiped out by the Sanders proposal.michael barbaroWow.margot sanger-katzThere would be no private insurance. Everyone would get their insurance directly from the government.michael barbaroAnd what about the cost?margot sanger-katzSo this would be an enormously expensive proposal. It is not necessarily expensive compared to all the ways that Americans pay for health care now. So right now, your employer, if you get employer based insurance, they pay something towards your insurance premium, you pay something towards your insurance premium. When you go to the hospital, maybe you pay a deductible. There are kind of all of these different pots that your health care dollars come from. What the “Medicare for All” plan would do is it would say, no one’s going to pay into any of those streams — the federal government is going to pay for all the medical bills, but in order to pay that, they have to collect way more money in taxes. So various estimates say it would cost more than $30 trillion to administer something like the Sanders plan. That is a lot of money. And that is so much money that you can’t just raise it by taxing the rich. You would really have to have very broad-based taxes that would reach across the income spectrum.michael barbaroSo what you have described is a pretty radical idea that would upend a huge segment of the U.S. economy. It would require major changes to the tax code. So I wonder if there’s any practical chance that this actually could get through our legislative and political process to become the U.S. health care system.margot sanger-katzSo I’m always wary of making political predictions, but it seems extremely unlikely to me right now for a couple of reasons. One is that Republicans are dead-set against this. So now we’re left with just Democrats who would have to vote for such a bill. And then you would have to imagine that they could all agree on a proposal this radical. And I don’t think that there is enough unanimity among Democrats right now on this issue. But I also think that this is a way for Democratic politicians to signal that they are signed onto a particular set of values about fairness, about affordability, about kind of all being in it together. And I think that they want to send those kind of values messages to voters, even if they’re not necessarily sending them a specific policy platform that they can deliver on. And so I think it’s a way to say, like, that’s the mountain-top goal. We’re going to get there eventually. But it’s not necessarily saying, you know, on day one, I’m going to get there right away.michael barbaroWell, what exactly does that path look like, then, from where we are in the minds of these Democratic candidates to a someday-world where “Medicare for all,” as envisioned by someone like Bernie Sanders, could ever be a reality?margot sanger-katzSo I had this really interesting and instructive experience about a year ago. I went with Bernie Sanders to Toronto, and we went on a tour of the Canadian health care system. And I would say that Canada’s system is the closest analog to what a lot of these politicians are proposing. And one thing that just really struck me about Canada is that people are all in on the values piece. There is just a real sense of kind of social solidarity around the idea that health care is a right, and everyone should have it in the country, and there shouldn’t be any restrictions, and that it should be sort of radically fair. And that just struck me culturally as so different. And the thing that I couldn’t untangle when I was in Canada is, do they have those values because they have that system, or do they have that system because they already had those values? And I think, you know, part of what will be interesting if Democrats, you know, retake power, and if they start moving us on this path towards something more like single-payer is, how hard will it be to shift those values? We see them. There definitely are people in the Democratic base who believe them deeply in their hearts, but I don’t think that most Americans feel that health care is a fundamental right and that everyone should have it. And I don’t know if that will change.michael barbaroRight. Which comes first, the values that say that health care is a right, or the national health care system that dictates that? And from everything you’ve described, something like 80 years of U.S. history suggests that there has not been an appetite for this kind of a system. So the only way it would work is if we believe, right, that the system could come first and the values would flow from it.margot sanger-katzI don’t know. I almost think that the opposite thing is probably true — that it’s really hard to imagine it being possible to pass something that would be so earth-shattering, that would make so many changes to our health care system, to our tax code, to the way that health care is delivered if we don’t have buy-in. And so I think that a real challenge for politicians around this issue is really going to be winning hearts and minds and trying to convince people that this vision of how the health care system should work is worth the disruption. The people who really believe in it really believe in it, but there are a lot of people that they will have to persuade.michael barbaroIt’s interesting. So when candidates like Bernie Sanders say “Medicare for all,” potentially, he’s actually trying to change the American culture to the point where “Medicare for all” could actually work. In other words, when he or anyone says “Medicare for all,” they’re actually calling for the cultural change required for the U.S. to get excited and adopt “Medicare for all.”margot sanger-katzMaybe. I mean, it could be that this is the only way that we’re going to get the kind of cultural change that would be required to make a policy change of this magnitude, but I also think that there are real risks here. It’s totally possible that America could engage with this idea, and we could have a big debate about it in a presidential election, and then could thoroughly reject it. And then we sort of end up with the kind of politics around health care that we’ve had for a long time, where these sort of universal health care proposals are put forward, it’s decided that they’re kind of too radical for where we are, and they get shelved again.michael barbaroHm.margot sanger-katzWhich would put us in kind of a familiar situation of having considered a big government-run health care system and saying, no, thanks.michael barbaroMargot, thank you very much. We appreciate it.margot sanger-katzI’m so happy to come on. [MUSIC]michael barbaroIn his new budget unveiled on Monday, President Trump called for $845 billion in cuts to Medicare over the next decade, setting up a 2020 presidential race in which he will seek to shrink the program, while many of his Democratic rivals propose expanding it.“We have a structure that frankly works for most Americans,” said Charles N. Kahn III, the president of the Federation of American Hospitals, which represents investor-owned hospitals. “Let’s make it work for all Americans. We reject the notion that we need to turn the whole apple cart over and start all over again.”The Democrats’ proposals could radically change the way health care providers do business and could drastically shrink the role and the revenues of insurers, depending on how a single-payer system is devised.The hospital federation and two powerful lobbies, America’s Health Insurance Plans and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, created a coalition last June to pre-empt what they saw as an alarming groundswell of interest in proposals to expand the federal role in health care.In a daily fusillade of digital advertising, videos and Twitter posts, the coalition, the Partnership for America’s Health Care Future, says that Medicare for all will require tax increases and give politicians and bureaucrats control of medical decisions now made by doctors and patients — arguments that echo those made to stop Medicare in the 1960s, Mrs. Clinton’s health plan in 1993 and the Affordable Care Act a decade ago.The coalition will step up the tempo in the coming week as Democrats in the House and the Senate plan to introduce bills to establish a single-payer system.The name of the coalition is intentionally nondescript, and its executive director, Lauren Crawford Shaver, who led Mrs. Clinton’s efforts in 2016 to put marginal states into play, is cagey when asked for details. She says only that the group is planning “a big nationwide effort” with grass-roots allies.But its reach is undeniable. The coalition has picked up more than 25 members, including the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association and the nation’s Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans.And it has already sprung into action.When Senator Bernie Sanders, the author of the Medicare for All Act, announced on Tuesday that he was again running for president, the coalition immediately attacked him as “a leading advocate for upending our nation’s health care system in favor of starting from scratch with Medicare for all.”Mr. Sanders, independent of Vermont, fired back at the insurance and drug companies. “They make tens of billions of dollars a year in profits from this dysfunctional health care system and pay their C.E.O.s outrageous compensation packages,” Mr. Sanders said. “We’ve expected their opposition all along.”When members of Congress unveiled legislation to let people age 50 to 64 buy into Medicare, the coalition conflated it with proposals to put all Americans into Medicare.“This is a slippery slope to government-run health care for every American,” said David Merritt, an executive vice president of America’s Health Insurance Plans, a lobby for insurers.The buy-in proposal for older Americans dates back to Bill Clinton’s presidency, and many of its advocates have put it forward as a moderate alternative to Medicare for all.But the coalition said the proposal was wrong for America, “whether you call it Medicare for all, Medicare buy-in, single payer or a public option.”The chief sponsor of the House buy-in bill, Representative Brian Higgins, Democrat of New York, said: “The critics lump our bill with the bigger Medicare-for-all proposal. That’s strategic, and I think it’s deliberate.”Mr. Higgins said the option of Medicare at age 50 would create “a countervailing force to private insurance.”“Insurance companies are fighting it because they are afraid of the prospect of a potent new competitor that will cut into their profits,” Mr. Higgins said. “Medicare has lower administrative costs and lower executive salaries and could use its bargaining power to get better deals from hospitals and other health care providers.”Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan and the sponsor of the buy-in bill in the Senate, said she was not surprised at the criticism. “It’s a knee-jerk reaction to anything that expands Medicare,” she said.But, she said, people 50 to 64 need the option.“We see the auto industry laying people off, encouraging people to retire early,” Ms. Stabenow said. “Many people are holding their breath until they turn 65. They put off preventive screenings, so they come into Medicare at 65 with more health problems.”Under the Affordable Care Act, insurers can increase premiums with a person’s age, and older people who do not qualify for subsidies face the highest premiums on the insurance exchange. For a 60-year-old in Charlotte, N.C., the average premium for a midlevel silver plan is more than $1,100 a month; in Phoenix, it is nearly $1,000 a month.The mission of the industry partnership includes advocacy, advertising, lobbying and public education, but it has not registered under federal lobbying laws. Forbes Tate, a public affairs company that lobbies for many health care and drug companies, coordinates the work of the partnership, but is not registered to lobby on its behalf.“There are no direct lobbyists for the partnership,” Ms. Shaver said. “We work through all of our different groups. They have their own lobbyists who do obviously lobby on Medicare for all. But there are no registered lobbyists for the partnership because we are not doing that directly at this time.”The coalition, like President Trump, attacks any proposals that smack of socialized medicine. But it also has a positive agenda. It wants to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act in Texas, Florida and other states that have yet to do so. It wants to expand federal subsidies under the health law so insurance will be affordable to more people. And it wants to stabilize premiums by persuading states to set up reinsurance programs, using a combination of federal and state funds to help pay the largest claims.Beyond their desire to preserve the status quo, coalition members have done well by the Affordable Care Act. Many participants, such as the American Medical Association, the pharmaceuticals lobby and the hospital association, backed the A.C.A. from the start, banking that more insured Americans would mean more customers. The hospitals saw the health law’s Medicaid expansion as a lifeline as they struggled with the uninsured working poor.Others, like the National Retail Federation, opposed the A.C.A. but have tried to make it work.The need to bolster the Affordable Care Act will become even more urgent, the coalition says, if Texas and other states succeed in their lawsuit to invalidate the entire law.Even without legislation to expand Medicare, the program is sure to grow because of the aging of the baby boom generation. The number of Medicare beneficiaries, 60 million today, is expected to top 75 million within a decade. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that Medicare spending will grow under current law to $1.5 trillion in 2029, double the total projected for this year.E. Neil Trautwein, the vice president for health care policy at the retail federation, which represents companies like Walmart, McDonald’s and Amazon, said his top priority was to protect the stability of the coverage that employers provide to employees.“We are trying to understand what will be coming at us,” Mr. Trautwein said. “Proposals on the left and the right, in Congress and on the campaign trail, could blow up the employer-based health care system that has worked pretty well for more than 60 years.”The version of Medicare for all proposed by Mr. Sanders in 2017 could disrupt that coverage. It would expand the list of items and services covered by Medicare and would prohibit employers from duplicating any of those benefits.When Mr. Sanders introduced that bill, it was endorsed by several Democratic senators who have since become candidates for the party’s presidential nomination: Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts.The more modest Medicare buy-in bill has been endorsed by Mr. Booker, Ms. Gillibrand and Ms. Harris, as well as by another Democratic candidate for president, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, and a potential candidate, Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio.Yet another Democratic proposal, allowing states to create a Medicaid buy-in program for all their residents, regardless of income, has won support from 23 senators, including Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, Ms. Klobuchar and Ms. Warren.Members of the coalition had different positions in the struggle to pass the Affordable Care Act in 2009 and 2010, but rave about it today. Ten million people have coverage through the exchanges, 14 million have gained Medicaid coverage, and in a strong economy more people have jobs that provide health insurance, they say.Some members of the coalition have financial as well as philosophical reasons for resisting the push to expand Medicare. Doctors and hospitals say Medicare generally pays less than private insurance, and hospitals say the payments frequently do not cover the costs of providing care to Medicare patients.“Chronic underpayment to providers creates access issues for seniors, particularly with physicians, who may limit the number of Medicare patients they see,” said Richard J. Pollack, the president of the American Hospital Association. Congress, he said, often makes changes in Medicare for reasons that have nothing to do with sound health policy — to offset the costs of tax cuts, for example.Moreover, Mr. Pollack said: “The government can be an unreliable business partner. What happens when the government shuts down? What happens if the health care system is even more dependent on Medicare and the government shuts down again?”But the coalition does not speak for all health care providers.The American College of Physicians, the largest medical specialty organization in the country, has supported a Medicare buy-in for people 55 to 64.And “during the whole debate over the Affordable Care Act, we supported having a public option in the individual insurance market in every state,” said Robert B. Doherty, senior vice president of the college, which represents 154,000 doctors who specialize in internal medicine.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

JAN. 4, 2019

If you stood for an hour rather than sitting for an hour, you would burn about how many additional calories?9 calories54 calories120 calories220 caloriesA Danish study found that cholesterol levels tend to be highest at this time of year:Christmas weekThe first week of JanuaryThe first week of springThe first week of autumnHearing loss is associated with an increased risk of:DementiaDepressionCardiovascular diseaseAll of the abovePotassium bromate is one of several food additives banned in Europe because it has been tied to cancer but allowed in the United States. Potassium bromate is commonly added to:SodasBaked goodsArtificial sweetenersKetchupBeing overweight contributes to about what percentage of all cancers?1 percent3 percent7 percent14 percentWhich statement about HDL cholesterol is true?It is often referred to as "good" cholesterolHDL levels below 30 milligrams per deciliter of blood are considered a health riskHDL levels exceeding 70 milligrams may also pose a health riskAll of the aboveResearchers in Sierra Leone found that these animals tested positive for Marburg virus, the first time the deadly virus has been found in West Africa:DogsMonkeysAdvertisementSupported byBy Cade Metz and Craig S. SmithLast year, the Food and Drug Administration approved a device that can capture an image of your retina and automatically detect signs of diabetic blindness.This new breed of artificial intelligence technology is rapidly spreading across the medical field, as scientists develop systems that can identify signs of illness and disease in a wide variety of images, from X-rays of the lungs to C.A.T. scans of the brain. These systems promise to help doctors evaluate patients more efficiently, and less expensively, than in the past.Similar forms of artificial intelligence are likely to move beyond hospitals into the computer systems used by health care regulators, billing companies and insurance providers. Just as A.I. will help doctors check your eyes, lungs and other organs, it will help insurance providers determine reimbursement payments and policy fees.Ideally, such systems would improve the efficiency of the health care system. But they may carry unintended consequences, a group of researchers at Harvard and M.I.T. warns.In a paper published on Thursday in the journal Science, the researchers raise the prospect of “adversarial attacks” — manipulations that can change the behavior of A.I. systems using tiny pieces of digital data. By changing a few pixels on a lung scan, for instance, someone could fool an A.I. system into seeing an illness that is not really there, or not seeing one that is.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Software developers and regulators must consider such scenarios, as they build and evaluate A.I. technologies in the years to come, the authors argue. The concern is less that hackers might cause patients to be misdiagnosed, although that potential exists. More likely is that doctors, hospitals and other organizations could manipulate the A.I. in billing or insurance software in an effort to maximize the money coming their way.Samuel Finlayson, a researcher at Harvard Medical School and M.I.T. and one of the authors of the paper, warned that because so much money changes hands across the health care industry, stakeholders are already bilking the system by subtly changing billing codes and other data in computer systems that track health care visits. A.I. could exacerbate the problem.“The inherent ambiguity in medical information, coupled with often-competing financial incentives, allows for high-stakes decisions to swing on very subtle bits of information,” he said.The new paper adds to a growing sense of concern about the possibility of such attacks, which could be aimed at everything from face recognition services and driverless cars to iris scanners and fingerprint readers.An adversarial attack exploits a fundamental aspect of the way many A.I. systems are designed and built. Increasingly, A.I. is driven by neural networks, complex mathematical systems that learn tasks largely on their own by analyzing vast amounts of data.By analyzing thousands of eye scans, for instance, a neural network can learn to detect signs of diabetic blindness. This “machine learning” happens on such an enormous scale — human behavior is defined by countless disparate pieces of data — that it can produce unexpected behavior of its own.In 2016, a team at Carnegie Mellon used patterns printed on eyeglass frames to fool face-recognition systems into thinking the wearers were celebrities. When the researchers wore the frames, the systems mistook them for famous people, including Milla Jovovich and John Malkovich.A group of Chinese researchers pulled a similar trick by projecting infrared light from the underside of a hat brim onto the face of whoever wore the hat. The light was invisible to the wearer, but it could trick a face-recognition system into thinking the wearer was, say, the musician Moby, who is Caucasian, rather than an Asian scientist.Researchers have also warned that adversarial attacks could fool self-driving cars into seeing things that are not there. By making small changes to street signs, they have duped cars into detecting a yield sign instead of a stop sign.Late last year, a team at N.Y.U.’s Tandon School of Engineering created virtual fingerprints capable of fooling fingerprint readers 22 percent of the time. In other words, 22 percent of all phones or PCs that used such readers potentially could be unlocked.The implications are profound, given the increasing prevalence of biometric security devices and other A.I. systems. India has implemented the world’s largest fingerprint-based identity system, to distribute government stipends and services. Banks are introducing face-recognition access to A.T.M.s. Companies such as Waymo, which is owned by the same parent company as Google, are testing self-driving cars on public roads.Now, Mr. Finlayson and his colleagues have raised the same alarm in the medical field: As regulators, insurance providers and billing companies begin using A.I. in their software systems, businesses can learn to game the underlying algorithms.If an insurance company uses A.I. to evaluate medical scans, for instance, a hospital could manipulate scans in an effort to boost payouts. If regulators build A.I. systems to evaluate new technology, device makers could alter images and other data in an effort to trick the system into granting regulatory approval.In their paper, the researchers demonstrated that, by changing a small number of pixels in an image of a benign skin lesion, a diagnostic A.I system could be tricked into identifying the lesion as malignant. Simply rotating the image could also have the same effect, they found.Small changes to written descriptions of a patient’s condition also could alter an A.I. diagnosis: “Alcohol abuse” could produce a different diagnosis than “alcohol dependence,” and “lumbago” could produce a different diagnosis than “back pain."In turn, changing such diagnoses one way or another could readily benefit the insurers and health care agencies that ultimately profit from them. Once A.I. is deeply rooted in the health care system, the researchers argue, business will gradually adopt behavior that brings in the most money.The end result could harm patients, Mr. Finlayson said. Changes that doctors make to medical scans or other patient data in an effort to satisfy the A.I. used by insurance companies could end up on a patient’s permanent record and affect decisions down the road.Already doctors, hospitals and other organizations sometimes manipulate the software systems that control the billions of dollars moving across the industry. Doctors, for instance, have subtly changed billing codes — for instance, describing a simple X-ray as a more complicated scan — in an effort to boost payouts.Hamsa Bastani, an assistant professor at the Wharton Business School at the University of Pennsylvania, who has studied the manipulation of health care systems, believes it is a significant problem. “Some of the behavior is unintentional, but not all of it,” she said.As a specialist in machine-learning systems, she questioned whether the introduction of A.I. will make the problem worse. Carrying out an adversarial attack in the real world is difficult, and it is still unclear whether regulators and insurance companies will adopt the kind of machine-learning algorithms that are vulnerable to such attacks.But, she added, it’s worth keeping an eye on. “There are always unintended consequences, particularly in health care,” she said.AdvertisementSupported byIn a health system riddled with inequity, we risk making dangerous biases automated and invisible.By Dhruv KhullarDr. Khullar is an assistant professor of health care policy and research.Artificial intelligence is beginning to meet (and sometimes exceed) assessments by doctors in various clinical situations. A.I. can now diagnose skin cancer like dermatologists, seizures like neurologists, and diabetic retinopathy like ophthalmologists. Algorithms are being developed to predict which patients will get diarrhea or end up in the ICU, and the FDA recently approved the first machine learning algorithm to measure how much blood flows through the heart — a tedious, time-consuming calculation traditionally done by cardiologists. It’s enough to make doctors like myself wonder why we spent a decade in medical training learning the art of diagnosis and treatment. There are many questions about whether A.I. actually works in medicine, and where it works: can it pick up pneumonia, detect cancer, predict death? But those questions focus on the technical, not the ethical. And in a health system riddled with inequity, we have to ask: Could the use of A.I. in medicine worsen health disparities? There are at least three reasons to believe it might.The first is a training problem. A.I. must learn to diagnose disease on large data sets, and if that data doesn’t include enough patients from a particular background, it won’t be as reliable for them. Evidence from other fields suggests this isn’t just a theoretical concern. A recent study found that some facial recognition programs incorrectly classify less than 1 percent of light-skinned men but more than one-third of dark-skinned women. What happens when we rely on such algorithms to diagnose melanoma on light versus dark skin?Medicine has long struggled to include enough women and minorities in research, despite knowing they have different risk factors for and manifestations of disease. Many genetic studies suffer from a dearth of black patients, leading to erroneous conclusions. Women often experience different symptoms when having a heart attack, causing delays in treatment. Perhaps the most widely used cardiovascular risk score, developed using data from mostly white patients, can be less precise for minorities.Will using A.I. to tell us who might have a stroke, or which patients will benefit a clinical trial, codify these concerns into algorithms that prove less effective for underrepresented groups?Second, because A.I. is trained on real-world data, it risks incorporating, entrenching and perpetuating the economic and social biases that contribute to health disparities in the first place. Again, evidence from other fields is instructive. A.I. programs used to help judges predict which criminals are most likely to reoffend have shown troubling racial biases, as have those designed to help child protective services decide which calls require further investigation.In medicine, unchecked A.I. could create self-fulfilling prophesies that confirm our pre-existing biases, especially when used for conditions with complex trade-offs and high degrees of uncertainty. If, for example, poorer patients do worse after organ transplantation or after receiving chemotherapy for end-stage cancer, machine learning algorithms may conclude such patients are less likely to benefit from further treatment — and recommend against it.Finally, even ostensibly fair, neutral A.I. has the potential to worsen disparities if its implementation has disproportionate effects for certain groups. Consider a program that helps doctors decide whether a patient should go home or to a rehab facility after knee surgery. It’s a decision imbued with uncertainty but has real consequences: Evidence suggests discharge to an institution is associated with higher costs and higher risk of readmission. If an algorithm incorporates residence in a low-income neighborhood as a marker for poor social support, it may recommend minority patients go to nursing facilities instead of receive home-based physical therapy. Worse yet, a program designed to maximize efficiency or lower medical costs might discourage operating on those patients altogether.To some extent, all these problems already exist in medicine. American health care has always struggled with income- and race-based inequities rooted in various forms of bias. The risk with A.I. is that these biases become automated and invisible — that we begin to accept the wisdom of machines over the wisdom of our own clinical and moral intuition. Many A.I. programs are black boxes: We don’t know exactly what’s going on inside and why they produce the output they do. But we may increasingly be expected to honor their recommendations. In my practice, I’ve often seen how any tool can quickly become a crutch — an excuse to outsource decision making to someone or something else. Medical students struggling to interpret an EKG inevitably peek at the computer-generated output at the top of the sheet. I myself am often swayed by the report provided alongside a chest X-ray or CT scan. As automation becomes pervasive, will we catch that spell-check autocorrected “they’re” to “there” when we meant “their”?Still, A.I. holds tremendous potential to improve medicine. It may well make care more efficient, more accurate and — if properly deployed — more equitable. But realizing this promise requires being aware of the potential for bias and guarding against it. It means regularly monitoring both the output of algorithms and the downstream consequences. In some cases, this will necessitate counter-bias algorithms that hunt for and correct subtle, systematic discrimination.But most fundamentally, it means recognizing that humans, not machines, are still responsible for caring for patients. It is our duty to ensure that we’re using AI as another tool at our disposal — not the other way around.AdvertisementSupported byAt WarBy Patricia KimeAt age 30, Stephen Hopkins was back in the Army for a second time. After serving as an enlisted soldier from 1991 to 1995, he returned as an officer in 2000. He was a man who routinely maxed fitness tests and endured physical hardship while deployed to rural locales in Afghanistan. Selected for Special Forces training, Hopkins tackled the demanding courses with gusto, later returning to combat for a total of seven deployments. He had a job he loved and excelled at, and his star was ascending.But in 2005, Hopkins began experiencing wild swings in blood pressure. And he had other symptoms: crippling nausea, constant dizziness, a skyrocketing heart rate. He was given a diagnosis of common high blood pressure, and for a while he felt better by keeping himself on a high dose of a medication for that condition. He was on deployment in Afghanistan when the nausea returned, with migraine symptoms, abnormal thirst and muddled thinking. Medical tests were inconclusive, leading military doctors and commanders to suspect depression, post-traumatic stress disorder or, worse, “malingering” — the medical term for soldiers who feign sickness to shirk duty.[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]“‘Malingering’? I was offended,” said Hopkins, who retired in 2017 as a major and now lives in Fort Washington, Md. “I was seeking medical care so I could figure out how to stay in the Army, not get out.” He was sent back to the United States in the summer of 2012 and was getting ready to attend a training course when he collapsed one day in a parking lot. His parents drove him to Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Maryland, where he was seen by Capt. Kevin Dorrance, then the facility’s chief of internal medicine. Dorrance investigated a wide range of possible factors, including endocrine conditions, PTSD and various types of toxic exposures. A series of tests increasingly pointed toward lead, but chronic lead poisoning — from repeated exposures months or years in the past, rather than from a recent, short-term exposure — cannot be definitively identified by blood tests.Dorrance sent Hopkins to Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York for an X-ray fluorescence (XRF) test, a procedure to measure the level of lead in his bones. They were riddled with it: His tibia registered more than two and a half times the level expected in an average American his age, then 42. With that test, Hopkins became the first of 38 service members from 2012 to today tested at Mount Sinai for chronic lead poisoning. Of those, a dozen have measured bone lead levels higher than what is considered normal, including four with almost twice the expected amount. Dozens of other service members have gone to the Cleveland Clinic’s Center for Functional Medicine in Ohio to be treated for lead and other types of metal poisoning. While the number of affected soldiers is small, the diagnosis can be life-changing to these troops, who for years have wrestled with unexplained symptoms that mimic traumatic brain injury or PTSD, including impaired concentration, anger, anxiety and impulsivity, as well as physical manifestations like tremors, high blood pressure, low sperm count and peripheral neuropathy.Lead exposure is a known hazard of military service: The United States armed forces have fired billions of rounds of ammunition containing the toxic material since entering Afghanistan in October 2001. Troops are exposed to the metal while shooting indoors and outside; gathering shell casings; smoking, chewing tobacco or eating on ranges; cleaning their weapons; and living and fighting in polluted environments. But lead monitoring and testing programs at the Defense Department have focused primarily on service members who work on firing ranges and on the civilian staff at ranges, who are regulated by Occupational Safety and Health Administration guidelines. Defense Department policy requires service members who may be exposed to high levels of airborne lead for 30 or more days a year to get a blood test for lead, with follow-up tests at least annually.After he diagnosed Hopkins and another service member with chronic lead poisoning, Dorrance contacted the office of the surgeon at Special Operations Command, the Environmental Health unit at Fort Bragg and officials at Navy and Marine Corps Public Health Command to request that more troops be tested and the problem be researched. But six years after the issue was first raised, little progress has been made. The Department of Defense, which until last year annually tested blood lead levels in just 1,200 out of almost three million troops and civilian employees, has found very few cases of lead poisoning, leading Army officials to believe that there isn’t a widespread problem. Dorrance, who retired from the Navy in 2017 and started a company to help veterans and others with addiction recovery, said the condition is a tough sell to military physicians and the broader medical community, as they rarely see lead poisoning from long-term exposure in adults. Chronic lead poisoning is difficult to diagnose, and the medical community and government agencies that study environmental exposures have long asserted that the lead that accumulates in the bones (specifically in dense, hard areas known as cortical bone) is locked in place and doesn’t circulate back into the bloodstream and cause symptoms, except in cases of a handful of specific medical conditions.Dorrance and Dr. Mark Hyman, director of the Center for Functional Medicine at the Cleveland Clinic, argue that this theory is wrong — and that they have the patients to prove it. Pointing to a growing body of research that suggests that lead in the bones may be more toxic than once thought, they say physicians should be considering lead poisoning as a possible cause for many unexplained symptoms in service members, especially uncontrolled hypertension, fatigue and brain fog. “These soldiers are breaking down, and they go to doctor after doctor after doctor, and every single one of them misses what is going on,” Hyman said. “These soldiers aren’t getting the proper care. It’s a huge blind spot.”Master Sgt. Geoff Dardia, now 42, began working as a Special Forces training instructor in 2009, teaching high-intensity courses to fellow Green Berets. In a single six-week course, each student would fire upward of 150,000 rounds — and Dardia taught 16 such courses in just over three years. “I lived in shoot houses,” he recalls. By the end of his first year of teaching, he was living with an array of debilitating symptoms: fatigue, migraines, muscle loss, double vision, trouble with his balance, high blood pressure and low heart rate. When out on deployment to Afghanistan and elsewhere, he would actually feel better. When he returned home, to Fort Bragg, in North Carolina, things got really bad. “There’d be big blanks where I couldn’t remember large chunks of what I’d done, like driving home,” Dardia said. “At the same time, my mind was racing. I didn’t want to tell anyone, because I was afraid of losing my job.” But eventually, Dardia heard about Hopkins and his symptoms and went to Walter Reed to meet with Dorrance. Dardia was soon on his way to Mount Sinai for an XRF test. The results showed that his bone lead levels were 30 percent higher than normal.Dardia eventually went to the Cleveland Clinic, where he was prescribed a treatment called chelation, which involves taking a medication, orally or intravenously, that binds with the lead circulating in the body so that it can be excreted. Over the course of about a year, Dardia experienced a tremendous improvement. He was lucky both medically and administratively: Because he had found doctors who recognized lead poisoning and how to treat it, Dardia’s chelation was covered by Tricare, the military’s health program for active-duty service members and retirees. In 2013, knowing that there must be other service members suffering from lead poisoning without ever getting a proper diagnosis, Dardia teamed up with an existing nonprofit, the Task Force Dagger Foundation, to teach about the condition and to raise money to help other people in the Special Operations community cover the costs associated with diagnosis and treatment. He continues to serve in the Army and recently returned from his seventh deployment to a conflict zone. “I think there are a lot of people out there who have symptoms and just think it’s stress,” Dardia said. “No one even thinks about lead or other toxic metals.”Like Dardia, Hopkins also underwent chelation — the only service member at the time to receive the treatment for chronic lead exposure within the Department of Defense, where his therapy was overseen by Dorrance. Even now he continues to take antioxidants and vitamin supplements and takes great care to minimize his risk of any additional exposure to lead.Between 2005 and 2016, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Adult Blood Lead Epidemiology and Surveillance program reported 210 cases of elevated lead levels across the Defense Department. These cases were measured by blood lead level tests, but according to Stephanie Stevens, a spokeswoman for the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, the number is a “huge underestimate,” because federal military labs aren’t required to report their data to state public health offices that collect the information. Stevens added that many states themselves don’t report their data to the C.D.C.: In 2016, the most recent year the information was collected, just 21 states participated.In 2012, about the time Hopkins underwent XRF testing at Mount Sinai, United States Army Special Operations Command was dealing with a lead exposure problem at Range 37, a firing range heavily used for elite training courses at the United States Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School at Fort Bragg. In a two-year investigation, the command had found unsafe levels of lead in the air at shoot houses and indoor ranges that were “directly responsible for elevated blood lead levels that have been found in weapons instructors and soldiers conducting high intensity weapons training,” according to a command document. The command cleaned up or closed some of its ranges and dropped the level of unacceptable exposure to 20 micrograms of lead per deciliter of blood. The Special Warfare Center now offers some types of training with “green” ammunition (rounds made of more environmentally friendly materials, like a copper slug with a steel penetrator, that contain lead only in the primer) and monitors blood lead levels of its instructors and students more frequently.The command also warned Army leadership that many soldiers arriving at Fort Bragg for training had elevated blood lead levels — an indication that the problem was not limited to particular ranges or training courses. This was a “larger, Army-wide problem,” the Army Special Operations Command Surgeon’s Office noted in a 2012 summary.The same year, the Defense Department asked the National Research Council to study the levels of occupational exposure to lead on military firing ranges. But the council’s review was hampered by data being withheld by the Pentagon and the services, which provided only scanty and incomplete information, even on basic facts like the number of military firing ranges in operation, air quality data and blood test results. With that limitation, the National Research Council wasn’t able to comment specifically on the risks facing people who work at military shooting ranges, but in its report, released at the end of 2012, it concluded that the prevailing American workplace regulations allowed for higher levels of lead in the blood than are actually safe. OSHA limits, which the Defense Department had long used as a guideline, allow employees to work indefinitely at a job that keeps their lead level at 40 micrograms per deciliter of blood; the report endorses a limit of 20 micrograms. In 2017, five years after the National Research Council report, the Defense Department tightened their regulations, setting 20 micrograms as the threshold for removing military and civilian staff from jobs involving high exposure to lead.Under the new regulation — and facing a growing controversy over lead contamination in Army housing — the Army performed 1,728 blood lead level tests on active-duty soldiers in the first two quarters of 2018, according to service officials. Of those, 335 service members had levels higher than 5 micrograms per deciliter of blood (the C.D.C.’s definition of an elevated lead level): Two exceeded 40 micrograms, another three exceeded 20 micrograms and the remaining 330 were between 5 and 19 micrograms. “Given the current Army end strength of 475,367, this equates to a prevalence of less than 1 in 1,000, which indicates that elevated blood lead levels is not a widespread problem,” John J. Resta, the director of the Army Public Health Center, wrote in an email.Even if the Army expanded its efforts to measure blood lead levels, those tests can only catch a recent or ongoing exposure. When lead enters the body — from inhaling airborne lead particles that are emitted from a weapon while it is firing, ingesting it when eating or smoking in a contaminated environment or from any other source — it initially lingers in the blood, where it can be detected by a blood test, but it doesn’t stay there. Some is filtered out and eliminated, and some is absorbed into the bones. Once an adult is removed from the source of contamination, most of the lead will be gone from the blood after a period of one to four months, depending on the severity of the exposure. At that point, a blood test can come back clean. But the lead that has been absorbed into cortical bone stays there for decades. And the concentration of lead in the bones increases with each subsequent exposure.According to the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, the federal agency concerned with public health risks associated with exposure to hazardous substances, the lead that has been stored away in bones, even in dense cortical bone, may be released back into the bloodstream, especially in times of calcium stress, as with a broken bone, pregnancy, lactation, osteoporosis or kidney disease. But Hopkins, Dardia and other soldiers experienced symptoms without having any of these conditions. Their symptoms were consistent with civilian workers who experience chronic lead exposure through jobs like smelting, foundry operations, soldering, scrap-metal salvage and bridge repair — populations that, according to the National Organization for Rare Disorders, are known to be at higher risk but are nevertheless prone to overlooking long-term lead exposure as the root cause of symptoms like depression, fatigue, irritability, memory loss, neuropathy, impotence and serious cardiovascular conditions.That soldiers are exposed to lead while on the job isn’t news for the Army. A 1996 study by the Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine noted that soldiers on bases were at risk for exposure to “unhealthy levels of lead” from firing ranges, battery repair, lead paint and building demolition. The center recommended fully implementing “existing Army policies, programs and procedures for lead-exposure reduction” and including lead “as a priority pollutant in . . . pollution prevention programs.” Yet Hopkins and others say they never received explicit warnings of potential lead exposure or guidance on proper range hygiene. “The Army did nothing to warn anyone or deal with the issue,” Hopkins said. “It’s baffling to me.” Dardia saw improvements arrive in 2012 at the ranges for Special Forces troops, but only after the Army Special Operations Command realized the extent of the problem at its facilities.Service members aren’t the only people within the military community affected by lead exposure. In August 2018, Reuters reported that more than 1,000 military children living in Army housing tested positive for high levels of lead between 2011 and 2016. Senators have asked the Army to investigate. The Army published a policy memorandum on childhood lead exposure and hazard management in October, clarifying the policy and procedures for the service’s role in preventing lead exposure in children. Spurred by the Reuters report, the service directed its Public Health Center to develop “a Lead Hazard Management Control Plan to monitor compliance” with the policy.The Army continues to assert that elevated blood lead levels are not a common problem among its soldiers. In correspondence with The New York Times, Army Public Health Center officials took issue with the term “lead poisoning,” asking instead that the phrase “elevated blood lead levels” be used. Beyond the measures taken by Army Special Operations Command, the rest of the Army has done little, according to Dardia, speaking in his capacity as a Task Force Dagger volunteer, not as an active-duty Green Beret. “Big Army just is not acknowledging this the way they should be,” Dardia said.Dorrance, Hopkins and others have pressed members of Congress to require the Defense Department to increase testing and treatment for lead poisoning — both acute and chronic exposure. They want mandatory bone baseline screening and ongoing testing for troops whose specialties or deployments entail likely lead exposure, XRF equipment and technicians to carry out that testing program, more research into the toxicity of lead and the effectiveness of chelation therapy and a dedicated center for studying military environmental exposures.Meanwhile, Dardia is working to increase awareness that lead poisoning is treatable. Chelation is an F.D.A.-approved outpatient treatment for acute lead exposure, as determined by blood test. While it’s not normally used to treat bone lead, it was successful for Hopkins, who took an oral chelating agent, and for Dardia, whose treatment included both oral and intravenous chelation. Hopkins’s levels dropped from 20 micrograms of lead per gram of bone mineral to 6 micrograms.“Lead is generally not bio-available if it’s in the bones,” explained Andrew Todd, a research professor and the director of the X-ray Fluorescence Laboratory at Mount Sinai — meaning that it shouldn’t be circulating in the bloodstream and soft tissue. “But slowly, chelation worked down Hopkins’s bone supplies of lead. When I saw his reduced level, I didn’t believe it. I had to repeat the test.”In addition to trying to influence policy, Hopkins and Dorrance want to educate the military medical community about the signs and symptoms of chronic lead exposure. “The reason it’s being sidelined in the medical community is that it’s really not understood. Doctors have this discomfort with not knowing, and that’s a problem,” Dorrance said.They also say that service members need more education on the dangers of lead exposure. “I spent 20 years in the active duty service,” Hopkins said. “No one talked to me about lead exposure on a range, not once.”AdvertisementSupported byThe risk for complications in childbirth was highest during night shifts, weekends, holidays and in July.By Nicholas BakalarA mother’s health during a hospital birth may depend in part on the time of day and the kind of hospital.For a study published in Risk Analysis, researchers recorded maternal complications in more than two million births, tracking complications that can reasonably be controlled by hospital staff: severe perineal laceration, ruptured uterus, unplanned hysterectomy, admission to an intensive care unit, or unplanned operating procedure following delivery. More than 21,000 women had one or more of these complications.Compared with daytime deliveries on weekdays, the risk for complications during night shifts was 21 percent higher, on weekends 9 percent higher and on holidays 29 percent higher.The researchers also found an increased risk of 28 percent in teaching hospitals in July, when new residents begin their training. This difference was reduced to statistical insignificance by the following June.AdvertisementSupported byWell By Gretchen ReynoldsLoneliness is bad for your health. Social isolation is associated with a significantly increased risk of premature death. And the problem resists fixing; solitary people who participate in experiments meant to nudge them into joining groups tend to have high rates of recidivism. According to a study published this month in Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, however, it might be possible to reduce loneliness by using cellphones to teach a particular type of meditation.Researchers from Carnegie Mellon University and several other institutions recruited 153 men and women who considered themselves stressed out — the study was slightly mischaracterized to disguise a primary concern, loneliness. Next, the volunteers completed questionnaires: They were asked about their social networks, their interactions with others and their feelings of loneliness, if any. Their baseline levels of sociability were established through texts that prodded them to answer questions about what they were doing and with whom. This monitoring lasted three days.The subjects were then randomly divided into three groups and given an app for their phones. The app gave the control group general techniques for coping with stress. Another group was taught mindfulness through the meditative method of paying close attention to the moment and focusing on breathing and other sensations. The third group received those and additional instructions: Take note of and say “yes” aloud to all sensations, a process that trained the subjects to be attentive and approach what the researchers dubbed “equanimity.” Every day for two weeks, the subjects were tasked with using their app for 20 minutes and practicing for another 10 minutes. Afterward, they filled out the questionnaires again and went through another three days of monitoring.Little changed for those in either the control group or the one taught attention-only mindfulness. But the subjects whose training included acceptance and equanimity were measurably more sociable. Their daily routines, after using the app for two weeks, typically included several more interactions with people that lasted at least a few minutes, and their questionnaires showed a decline in their feelings of loneliness.AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareSome in Congress say financial incentives will lead to healthful choices, but having more choices can be problematic when so many Americans are busy and stressed. By Austin Frakt and Gilbert BenavidezA $100 billion dollar health care package was proposed by congressional Republicans this past summer, and afterward endorsed by some Democrats. It aims to save money by encouraging you to make big life changes. But the package will probably fail to achieve its goals for a simple reason: scarcity. Chances are you don’t have the time, money or bandwidth to follow through. The legislation is expected to be reintroduced in the first quarter this year, and it has laudable goals. It encourages exercise by treating gym memberships as tax-deductible medical expenses. It would help cover out-of-pocket costs for high-deductible health plans by allowing people to deposit more money in tax-shielded health savings accounts. And it would permit the use of flexible spending accounts and health savings accounts to buy sports equipment.In other words, the spending package is intended to nudge Americans to exercise more and to get a better handle on their finances. But it would require people to restructure their lives in response to modest financial incentives. The package is an active policy: It requires opting in.Most of us won’t. We’re experiencing multiple, and often compounding, types of scarcity. “Scarcity in one walk of life means we have less attention, ‘less mind,’ in the rest of life,” wrote Eldar Shafir and Sendhil Mullainathan, Princeton and Harvard University professors who study behavioral economics. They refer to scarcity as a “cognitive tax” that makes it hard for people to live healthy lives and make health-promoting choices.Perhaps the most familiar source of that cognitive tax comes from a busy professional and family life. After working a full-time job, many people spend the rest of the day chauffeuring children to activities, helping with their homework, making dinner and taking care of household chores. As Claire Cain Miller of The Upshot wrote recently, modern parenting seems unending, especially for working mothers.As a result, many people struggle to get to the gym or to muster the attention span to delve into finances. Choices involving money and health are especially tricky, as shown by a survey of studies on the relationship between stress and decision making. They often require people to make decisions despite inadequate information and lots of uncertainty. The resulting stress impairs the ability to make good choices. One experimental study, for example, found that stressed individuals tend to make riskier decisions.Scarcity is an especially tough problem for those struggling every day to make ends meet. In addition to time and money, some Americans might also lack educational opportunities and social support. That’s why active policies haven’t proved very helpful for the 40 million U.S. citizens who live in poverty. Work by the University of Southern California economics professor Leandro Carvalho and colleagues showed that low-income people were more “present-biased” after payday, worrying about the immediate more than the long-term effects of their decisions.Some people will benefit from active policies, but they’ll disproportionately be those who would have done what the policies encourage anyway. That’s a big part of why wellness programs — which provide financial incentives for healthy activities or preventive care — don’t work, as numerous studies have shown. Even without the programs, those people would have been likely to exercise, eat well and get preventive care. A wellness program tends to just throw another financial break at those who don’t need it.Likewise, studies have shown that health savings accounts are used primarily by wealthy people less in need of help with medical expenses. In financial literacy quizzes, a national survey found that college graduates and those making more than $75,000 per year did much better than other groups. This explains why people with an abundance of opportunity — those with higher incomes and more education among them — are likelier to make sound financial decisions, like investing in health savings accounts.In contrast, scarcity of money and education is correlated with lower rates of financial literacy, and, consequently, misinformed financial decisions like using costly payday or high-interest home loans. Moreover, tax-deferred vehicles like health savings accounts are less beneficial for those in lower tax brackets and virtually useless for families who lack surplus income to devote to the account.So if active policies fail most of us, what works? The evidence suggests it’s passive policies. These are programs that don’t require individual action; you’re not expected to add another task to the to-do list. Examples include default enrollment in a 401(k); in the health realm, they are public health efforts like water fluoridation and air quality improvement. Other advanced nations tend to have universal health systems that are simpler, while in the United States, the many types of plans and premiums introduce complexity and increase the time necessary to enroll. Millions of Americans select from a large variety of health plans each fall, for example, and research shows they tend to make mistakes, often paying more than they need to.So long as they’re well designed, public health policy and programs that work passively seem more likely to improve our lives by acknowledging and respecting just how busy and distracted we are.Gilbert Benavidez is a policy analyst with the Boston University School of Public Health. You can follow him on Twitter at GBinsolidarity. AdvertisementSupported byThe program is the first one to be closed as part of the city’s escalating effort to stem the country’s largest measles outbreak in decades.By Tyler Pager[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]New York City closed a preschool program at a yeshiva in Brooklyn on Monday for violating a Health Department order that required it to provide medical and attendance records amid a measles outbreak.The preschool at United Talmudical Academy, which serves 250 students between the ages of 3 and 5 in the Williamsburg area, is the first program to be closed by the city, as it escalates efforts to stem the country’s largest measles outbreak in decades. New York City has confirmed 329 measles cases since the outbreak began in the fall, and the cases have largely been confined within the ultra-Orthodox Jewish community. The outbreak began after unvaccinated individuals returned from celebrating Sukkot, a Jewish harvest festival, in Israel. The closing of the preschool comes as tensions have risen in the ultra-Orthodox community over increased scrutiny and fears of anti-Semitic backlash. On the one hand, most in the ultra-Orthodox community are vaccinated, and the vast majority of prominent rabbis have urged people to vaccinate their children. However, the city’s response to the outbreak has caused vaccine skeptics to double down on their opposition to immunization. The anti-vaccination movement’s well-coordinated and sophisticated messaging campaign, highlighted by magazines, hotlines and conference calls, has convinced some parents that vaccines are dangerous, and that diseases, like measles, are not. In December, the city issued exclusion orders, barring unvaccinated students from attending school in certain neighborhoods. The city issued violations to 23 yeshivas and day care centers for breaking that order. But, last month, the city said it would no longer issue violations; rather, it would immediately close yeshivas. “The challenge has been with this particular school that they have been unable and/or unwilling to provide documentation as required when we visit,” Dr. Oxiris Barbot, the city’s health commissioner, said at a news conference on Monday. “So we have visited on a number of occasions and offered support, but in spite of all of that it’s been to no avail.”The Health Department said the preschool would not be allowed to reopen until its staff had “submitted a corrective action plan approved by the department.” At the news conference, health officials said two students associated with the school had contracted measles, though they did not know for sure whether the students had been infected with the virus at the school or elsewhere. Last week, Mayor Bill de Blasio declared a public health emergency, requiring all individuals living in certain ZIP codes of Brooklyn to be vaccinated against measles or face a $1,000 fine. On Monday, a group of parents filed a lawsuit against the order, arguing it was unjustified because of “insufficient evidence of a measles outbreak or dangerous epidemic.”“Our attempts at education and persuasion have failed to stop the spread of measles,” Nick Paolucci, a spokesman for the city’s Law Department, said in a statement. “We had to take this additional action to fulfill our obligation to ensure that individuals do not continue to put the health of others at risk. We are confident that the city’s order is within the health commissioner’s authority to address the very serious danger presented by this measles outbreak.”A judge declined to issue an emergency injunction against the city on Monday, and the parties will appear in court on Thursday.There have been no deaths associated with this outbreak, but 25 individuals have been hospitalized. Two patients remain in the intensive care unit. “This outbreak will continue to worsen, and the case count will grow if child care programs and schools do not follow our direction,” Dr. Barbot said in a statement. “It’s crucial in this outbreak that child care programs and schools maintain up-to-date and accurate immunization and attendance records. It’s the only way we can make sure schools are properly keeping unvaccinated students and staff out of child care centers to hasten the end of this outbreak.”A teacher at United Talmudical Academy, who declined to give his name, said that all students who were not vaccinated were sent home weeks ago.“It was a few kids who didn’t take the shots,” he said, as he exited the building. “They’re not coming back.”A 68-year-old community member, who declined to give his name, said he did not think the school should be closed down.“The parents should be held accountable,” he said. He added that the community will be “very angry” that the school was shut down. AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareAre people relying too much on the traditional doctor/patient interaction? By Aaron E. CarrollWe know many people end up with a risky pileup of prescribed medications. Many efforts have been made, with varied success, to correct this problem. Yet we’ve usually focused on physician behavior, when there’s another powerful lever: pharmacists.About 30 percent of older adults in the United States and Canada filled a prescription in the last few years for one of many medications that the American Geriatrics Society recommends they avoid. Such drugs can lead to more harm — like cognitive impairment or falls — than good, and often safer options are available.“Older adults are taking an awful lot of pills these days — 66 percent take five drugs or more per day, and 27 percent take 10 or more per day — so if some of those pills are no longer necessary and may even be causing harm, why not ask if it is time to deprescribe?” said Dr. Cara Tannenbaum, a professor of medicine and pharmacy at the University of Montreal, and director of the Canadian Deprescribing Network.It’s not easy to get patients off such drugs, though. Physicians often don’t have enough information about what patients are taking, or may lack the time to talk to patients about these medications. They fear that stopping the drugs might cause harm or make patients upset.To explore the possible role of pharmacists, Dr. Tannenbaum conducted a large randomized controlled trial over four years in community pharmacies in Quebec. The results of the study were recently published in JAMA.Patients 65 years or older were randomly assigned to one of two groups. In the intervention group, pharmacists gave both patients and their physicians educational materials on the specific drug that might have been inappropriately prescribed. Such brochures could be delivered by mail or in person. The control group got the usual care, with no educational materials.Drugs that were targets for deprescribing included sedatives, first-generation antihistamines, glyburide (used to treat diabetes), and certain nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, like ibuprofen or naproxen. The main outcome of interest was the ending of a prescription for one of the four medication classes six months later.Almost 500 patients, average age 75, participated in the trial, and about 90 percent of them completed it. The intervention made a difference. Within six months, 43 percent of the patients in the intervention group had stopped taking one of the selected medicines. The corresponding figure was 12 percent in the control group.In medicine, we often focus on the traditional doctor/patient interaction. We tend to ignore practitioners who come into contact with patients more than physicians, who in this case could hand over brochures personally. In the study, pharmacists were also paid to send information to the patients’ doctors ($19 Canadian, equivalent to $14 American, per physician outreach).  Similar studies trying to enlist pharmacists are rare, but not unknown. In a 1996 study in the American Journal of Medicine that randomly assigned 208 patients, half of them had a pharmacist in a Veterans Affairs Medical Center review their medications and make recommendations to their physician. This resulted in improvements in prescriptions in 24 percent of patients versus 6 percent in usual care. A 1998 study published in JAMA encouraged pharmacists to contact physicians by alerts when they were employing drugs that were not ideal in the care of older people. They were able to reach physicians just over half the time and saw changes in prescriptions about a quarter of the time. This was not a controlled trial, however. A 2014 study in JAMA Internal Medicine focused on direct-to-consumer educational materials from pharmacists to reduce inappropriate benzodiazepine prescriptions for older people. It worked 27 percent of the time compared with 5 percent in usual care. A 2001 study in the Canadian Medical Association Journal focused on messages sent to physicians only, and found no significant changes.Dr. Tannenbaum, author of the recent JAMA study, thought that communication was essential to her project’s results: “We first asked primary care providers what information they needed to safely deprescribe patients’ medications,” she said. “Based on the physicians’ answers, we provided pharmacists with a template on how best to communicate the evidence about deprescribing to physicians. When pharmacists equipped patients with the same information, applied specifically to medications the patient had been taking for a while, everyone was on board and keen to initiate a conversation.”Of course, this study took place in Canada, and pharmacists’ scope of practice may differ in parts of the United States. The pharmacists were also reimbursed for physician contact, which might not occur in the United States. Pharmacists have seen increases in their scope, especially with respect to contraception in Oregon and California, which tend to be supported by patients as well.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — Denouncing the profit motive in health care, more than 100 House Democrats rallied on Wednesday around a bill to replace most private health insurance with a national single-payer system, “Medicare for all.”The chief sponsor of the bill, Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, said it would cure “a deep sickness within our for-profit system” of health care.But the bill highlights Democrats’ split over health policy going into the 2020 elections.Supporters of the bill, under which health care would be available to all Americans without premiums, co-payments, deductibles or “similar charges,” did not say how much it would cost or how they would pay for it. They said their proposal could save huge sums by cutting administrative costs and the bill-paying bureaucracy that works for insurance companies and health care providers. And Ms. Jayapal mentioned the possibility of levying “a wealth tax on the wealthiest Americans.”But only two hours after she introduced the bill, leaders of a more centrist group known as the New Democrat Coalition said Congress should initially focus on shoring up the Affordable Care Act, stabilizing insurance marketplaces and holding down prescription drug costs.“We’re going to be very practical,” said Representative Kurt Schrader of Oregon, a chairman of the New Democrats’ health care task force.Another lawmaker in that coalition, which has 101 members, said it might make more sense to allow people to voluntarily “buy into” Medicare or Medicaid.That approach, said the lawmaker, Representative Kim Schrier, Democrat of Washington, “would not cause as many seismic effects” as the shift to a single-payer system.Ms. Jayapal, who is a chairwoman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said that Senator Bernie Sanders’s Medicare for all bill had provided a template for hers. But in some ways, she went further, with a faster expansion of Medicare and broader coverage of long-term care.“Instead of giving hundreds of billions of dollars to insurance companies and pharmaceutical companies, and letting them profit off of people’s illness, we are saying that the government will pay,” Ms. Jayapal said. “We will negotiate prices. We will have cost controls. And we will ensure that we are putting patients over profits.”President Trump and other Republicans have derided such proposals as socialism.Ms. Jayapal said she was in good company. “A lot of our previous presidents were called socialist when they proposed Medicare,” she said. In 1961, when he was a Hollywood actor, Ronald Reagan warned that proposals for a program like Medicare could lead to socialism.Health insurance companies, which have reinvented their business models to comply with the Affordable Care Act in the past nine years, blasted Medicare for all as a threat not just to their business.“This bill will hurt patients, consumers and taxpayers,” Kristine Grow, a spokeswoman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, said on Wednesday. “Americans will pay more to wait longer for worse care.”Senator Bill Cassidy, Republican of Louisiana, taunted the Democrats pushing Medicare for all.“I welcome Democrats to the coalition to repeal and replace Obamacare,” Mr. Cassidy said on Twitter. “Only took 9 years!”Under the bill, people who are 18 and younger or 55 and older could enroll in Medicare for all one year after the legislation was enacted. Benefits would be available to other people two years after enactment. In the future, people would be automatically enrolled at birth.Highlights of the new Medicare for all bill show how it would remake health care in America:• It would be unlawful for a private health insurer or an employer to provide the same medical insurance benefits as the new program.• The secretary of health and human services would establish a “national health budget” specifying the total amount to be spent each year, with allocations for each region of the country. There would be separate budgets for operating expenses and capital costs like hospital construction and major equipment purchases.• Doctors practicing on their own would generally be paid on a fee-for-service basis. The health secretary would establish a national fee schedule.• Hospitals, nursing homes and community health centers would receive quarterly lump-sum payments from the federal government for the services they provide.• The government would specify “optimal staffing levels for physicians” and could set standards for the ratio of registered nurses to patients at hospitals and nursing homes.• The federal law known as the Hyde Amendment, which restricts the use of federal funds for abortions, would not apply to the new program of national health insurance.• The health secretary would directly negotiate drug prices with manufacturers. If they could not agree on the price for a particular drug, the government could issue a license authorizing another company to produce it.AdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszLONDON — Prince William, who has long spoken publicly about his emotional struggles, has taken his campaign for mental health awareness to Davos, Switzerland, urging global leaders to help break the stigma.Prince William, the Duke of Cambridge, who is second in line to the British throne, spoke candidly on Wednesday about the difficulty he faced in trying to get celebrities to sign on to his cause, revealing — without naming names — that not one had initially offered to join the mental health campaign that he has run since 2016 with his wife and his brother.It was only once they went public with their Heads Together campaign and “people realized that Catherine, Harry and I put our necks on the line here,” he said, that well-known names began supporting the effort. Its advocates now include the actress Judi Dench.At the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in the Swiss mountain resort of Davos, Prince William interviewed David Attenborough, the film producer of nature programs and a respected voice on climate change, on Monday. But he also spoke of the silence about mental health that was common in his parents’ and grandparents’ generations, and he called for people to be more open about their emotions.The duke, whose grandmother Queen Elizabeth II trained as a driver and mechanic during World War II, said the war had been so devastating that many people who had lived through it decided that keeping quiet about the traumas was the best way to deal with them. In many cases that stoicism was passed down to their children and grandchildren.“You know, we all learn from our parents; we all learn from how they deal with things,” William said, adding that a whole generation had inherited the attitude that the way to deal with problems was not to talk about them.Now is the time to break that pattern, he added, saying: “We should talk about it, and we should get over it.”To hear a member of the British royal family publicly discuss personal struggles with mental health was once unthinkable. But in 2017, Prince William’s brother, Harry, opened up about the emotional struggle he faced after the death of their mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, and about seeking counseling.“Some of the best people or easiest people to speak to is a shrink or whoever — the Americans call them shrinks — someone you have never met before,” Harry said on a podcast in 2017.Prince William, who had encouraged his brother, now the Duke of Sussex, to seek help after struggling with their mother’s death, said he had also struggled with mental health, during the two years he served as an air ambulance pilot. “I was dealing with a lot of trauma on a day-in, day-out basis,” he said in Davos on Wednesday. “We are all embarrassed by emotions. British people particularly — we are very embarrassed about revealing our emotions.”Since 2008, the National Health Service has worked to extend the scope of talk therapy. The duke’s campaign has been credited with encouraging Britons to turn to the therapy for treatment.Still, recent statistics showed that antidepressants were the fastest-growing prescription drugs. In England, the number of antidepressants dispensed more than doubled from 2006 to 2016, to 64.7 million, according to NHS Digital. Critics of Prime Minister Theresa May’s government have said that funding cuts to some mental health services have cast doubt on its commitment to treat mental health on parity with physical health.Last year, the British government appointed a minister to deal with loneliness, which affects more than nine million people in the country.At Davos, Prince William appeared on the same panel as Jacinda Ardern, the prime minister of New Zealand, who said that addressing mental health issues was a moral and economic imperative — one that affects productivity. She urged the business world to take on the issue.To Ms. Ardern, whose progressive politics have drawn international attention, it was also a personal one, as she leads a country dealing with high depression and suicide rates. “I’ve lost friends, and I wouldn’t have to look far in my cabinet to find others who have as well,” she said.AdvertisementSupported bynotedFor many office workers, “working from home” has replaced a day spent recovering under the covers. By Steven KurutzAdam Toren remembers the last time he crawled into bed, pulled the covers over his head and took off sick from work. “My whole family got wracked by the flu around 2006,” said Mr. Toren, a tech entrepreneur and writer. “Hopefully, that was the last time.”Thirteen years later, Mr. Toren, who lives in Phoenix, said he has not missed another day of work from illness, a streak of which he is exceedingly proud. To keep it going, “I monitor my sleep cycles,” he said, laying out the things he believes keep him healthy. “I don’t drink coffee. I drink specialty teas — Gyukuro, a Japanese tea. I take turmeric and resveratrol,” a supplement.Mr. Toren’s attendance streak may be an outlier, but more and more, the sick day is disappearing from the office vocabulary, even as we hit peak flu season. Once, a sick day was just that — a day away from work to focus on recovery (or at least pretend to: Think “Ferris Bueller’s Day Off”). But in recent years, it has become something murkier in definition and more reflective of our highly competitive, 24-7 work lives. The shifting definition and expanding mobility of the office — thanks to remote work and the rise of contractors in the gig economy — is also making the sick day somewhat passé, at least for some jobs.  “Even if you take a sick day, you’re still emailing in the morning, checking in later in the day,” said Kit Warchol, the head of content marketing for Skillcrush, an online coding school. “It’s become more of a norm to write to your colleagues and tell them you’re working from home.”That’s what Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg did this week, when she was absent from the Supreme Court to hear arguments in a case while she recuperated from cancer surgery. She would participate from home, Chief Justice John Roberts said. Working from home may sound relaxing, but the “working” part of that phrase underscores the expectations that accompany it: being available to check and respond to email, hop on a conference call and generally be productive, even if you feel lousy. In a previous job, Ms. Warchol got the flu and found herself in a doctor’s waiting room. With idle time and a phone in her hands, she ended up doing email. “Smartphones have changed a lot of things,” she said.Skillcrush employees work remotely (Ms. Warchol lives in Los Angeles), and the company has a flexible hours policy. It does not have a firm limit on what have traditionally been called sick days, but rather depends on employees to responsibly manage their time and communicate with co-workers if they can’t work because of illness or other circumstances. When Ms. Warchol came down with a cold last fall, a few weeks after starting her job, that meant “writing in the morning, when I was fully awake and had just taken Dayquil. Then in the afternoon, I would let my team know on Slack that I was going dark a bit.”Ms. Warchol decided to work through her cold rather than face “the anxiety of falling too far behind,” she said, a nod to increased workloads as companies have downsized or cut back on hiring (or at firms in start-up mode).Some workers may be afraid to take a true sick day and seem dispensable to their employers. As Ms. Warchol said, “Will it be seen as a sign of a lack of loyalty or tenacity?” And freelancers who lack job security especially may also have such concerns. Mark J. Marsen, the director of human resources for Allies for Health & Well-Being, a Pittsburgh agency for those with H.I.V. and other sexually transmitted diseases, said the sick day “is alive and well” at his company, although the semantics have changed.“We call them personal emergency days,” Mr. Marsen said. Broadening the definition gives employees greater privacy, Mr. Marsen said. It also takes into consideration mental health and whether a child or another family member who depends on the employee is sick and requires care. No longer does the employee have to “sell” their sickness to their boss with a list of symptoms.Personal days mean “you’re not able to do work today because of some circumstance,” Mr. Marsen said.Last month, Mr. Marsen caught a cold while traveling and missed two days of work. On the third day, he said, he felt well enough to work from home and checked his email, getting rid of the junk in his inbox. “That’s a life enhancer,” he said.But isn’t it unhealthy to never have a day to totally disconnect from your job and recover? Ms. Warchol, for one, appreciates the flexibility of the new model. In the barista position she took right out of college — and in many other jobs — working from home wasn’t an option. “It didn’t matter if I woke up with a sore throat. I was there at 6 a.m. making people’s coffee,” Ms. Warchol said. “There is a certain amount of privilege in not having to take sick days because you can work from your bed.”AdvertisementSupported byYour Money AdviserBy Ann CarrnsAt this time of year, many people are looking for ways to reduce their tax bills. One option may be to make a contribution to a health savings account.You can still make contributions for the 2018 tax year to an H.S.A. until the federal tax filing deadline in April, if you qualify.“It’s not too late to save on your 2018 taxes,” said Todd Berkley, vice president of BenefitWallet, a division of Conduent that manages H.S.A.s and other employee benefits. “Most people don’t know that.”H.S.A.s are special savings accounts that offer multiple tax benefits. Money is deposited tax free and grows tax free. It’s also withdrawn tax free, as long as funds are spent for eligible medical and health expenses.According to Optum Bank, which offers health savings accounts, if you are in the 28 percent tax bracket and deposit $3,000 into your H.S.A., you could save $840 in federal income tax.You can use the money in the accounts to pay for current health expenses, like doctor bills or dental care that your insurance doesn’t cover, or invest the money and let it grow to help cover future costs. There’s no spending deadline. And if you change jobs, the H.S.A. goes with you.For 2018, an individual can contribute up to $3,450, while the maximum contribution for family coverage is $6,900. People 55 and older can save an extra $1,000. There are no income limits on who can contribute.To use an H.S.A., however, you must have a specific type of health plan that has a high deductible — at least $1,350 for an individual, and $2,700 for a family, for 2018 — and meet other criteria, too. You can’t, for instance, contribute to an H.S.A. if you are covered by Medicare.There’s also the paperwork to consider. Depending on your situation, you can expect one or more H.S.A.-related forms to show up online or in the mail at tax time.If you took money from the account, you’ll receive Form 1099-SA, documenting the total spent in 2018. This form will help you fill out Form 8889, which calculates your H.S.A. deduction and is filed with your tax return.If you put money into an H.S.A. last year, you’ll receive Form 5498-SA, showing the contributions. (If you add extra cash to the account now for 2018, you can expect to get an updated form by the end of May.)H.S.A. contributions made by you or your employer through payroll deductions also show up on your W-2 wage and tax statement. If the amounts on your W-2 and 5498-SA don’t match, it’s probably because you made after-tax contributions or made a contribution between Jan. 1 and tax day for the previous tax year, according to Optum Bank.“It is a paperwork hassle,” said Delia Fernandez, a fee-only financial planner in Los Alamitos, Calif. But the tax savings, she said, make the document shuffling worth it.Andrew Crowell, vice chairman of D. A. Davidson & Company Wealth Management, said the tax documents should not scare anyone away from the benefits of saving with an H.S.A. The accounts can be used for short-term needs, he said, but they are particularly useful for saving for health needs in retirement.Unlike traditional individual retirement accounts, he noted, H.S.A.s do not have required minimum distributions — a date by which savers must begin withdrawing money so it can be taxed. That means funds in H.S.A.s can grow for longer periods.“There are numerous attractive tax elements to it,” Mr. Crowell said.Here are some questions and answers about health savings accounts:How much can I contribute to an H.S.A. for 2019?The maximum contribution for an individual for 2019 is $3,500, and $7,000 for family coverage. People 55 and older can contribute $1,000 more.What if I spend money from an H.S.A. for nonqualified purposes?The I.R.S. taxes withdrawals spent on ineligible expenses as income, and tacks on a 20 percent penalty. So it’s best to save receipts and document your spending — typically, a process made easier by using a debit card and online accounts offered by H.S.A. administrators. (For a list of allowable expenses, see I.R.S. Publication 969, as well as Publication 502.)Mr. Crowell noted that after age 65, the extra penalty goes away, and H.S.A. funds used for nonmedical purposes are simply taxed as ordinary income. That makes them a “fantastic” option for retirement savers, he said.AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareCaregivers aren’t supported, and America overlooks their importance. By Aaron E. CarrollLast year, one of my best friends learned he had cancer. In many respects he was lucky. He had great insurance. He had enough money. Partly because one of his friends (me) is well connected in the health care system, he got excellent care.So this is not a story about how the system failed, or how people need insurance or access. He had those. He got the care. This is the United States health care system at its peak performance.But I was utterly floored by how hard it all was.Americans spend so much time debating so many aspects of health care, including insurance and access. Almost none of that covers the actual impossibility and hardship faced by the many millions of friends and family members who are caregivers. It’s hugely disrupting and expensive. There’s no system for it. It’s a gaping hole.My friend, Jim Fleischer, missed a few days of work as the diagnosis was made, then missed many more after surgery. His wife, Ali, had to take time off. His mother-in-law had to come and help take care of him and the children when Ali had to go back to work (she’s a teacher).Every appointment required Jim and Ali to take off work. They live in Indiana, and at one point they had to pay for flights and a hotel room and everything else associated with a trip to New York — none of it covered by insurance — because no one would do the second opinion remotely. (He had a kidney removed in an initial operation, then doctors found he had a rare cancer, a neuro-ectodermal tumor, instead of the expected renal cell carcinoma).Chemotherapy is rough. After each cycle, Jim would pretty much sleep or rest for a week, unable to work. Someone had to take the time to be with him. Sometimes it was Ali; sometimes it was my wife, or me, or other friends.Jim is the C.E.O. of an international fraternity, so his colleagues and employees are his “brothers.” They were more than willing to fill in and hold the fort as he missed about three months of work total, so far.By my count, other adults missed at least 30 days of work to get Jim to his appointments. The economic loss — the many months of work — is the least of it. Not included is all the strain that has been put on Jim’s relatives as they’ve shifted to care for him while still maintaining all the obligations and commitments any family of five has to deal with.Again, I should be clear that this is how the system works in optimal conditions for people with a lot of privilege. Jim is now in remission, although he’ll need to be monitored for some time. This isn’t a story of how things went wrong. And yet on many occasions I’ve wondered how Jim’s family pulled it off.If it was this hard for him, it’s probably unbearable for many others with fewer resources. People can be financially ruined by illness — and health insurance won’t fix that.Last year, it’s estimated that more than 1.7 million people faced a cancer diagnosis. The year before, America spent more than $147 billion caring for people with cancer. But that doesn’t include the costs outside of health care.This year, the National Cancer Institute will spend more than $5.7 billion on cancer research. Almost none of that will investigate how to support the families of those who have the disease.On social media, I sought out people who had survived cancer in the last few years and asked them if they’d had similar experiences. Most said yes.Dina Burns, a public affairs consultant from Granite Bay, Calif., learned she had Stage 2 breast cancer right before her 50th birthday. She missed four weeks of work for her operation and then two months for chemotherapy. But her support team collectively missed even more.“My sister came up from Orange County for my surgery,” she said. “She stayed with me for almost two weeks. My daughters (one in college and one in a new post-college job) both took turns caring for me. And my husband came with me for every appointment, every hospitalization, even the trips to San Francisco to see the congenital heart defect specialist. He would sit in the recovery bay with his laptop, trying to stay on top of work and take care of me at the same time. We still had a son at home in his senior year of high school, so my husband was trying to help minimize the impact on him, too.”Kevin O’Connor,  an intellectual property lawyer from Evergreen Park, Ill., and a father of four, was found to have Hodgkin’s lymphoma when he was 34. He missed about two weeks of work because of testing. His wife accompanied him to all his visits, and friends and family had to take over child care duties. He missed 18 days for chemo, which, again, his wife also attended.“We also needed to make sure that someone — usually a grandparent, aunt or uncle — was there to look after the kids,” he said. “During my six weeks of radiation after chemo, everyone had to juggle again.”Candice B., a disabled Maine resident who is 38 and has had multiple bouts of cancer since 2004, told me: “When I got sick, my mother stopped working entirely to help me get treatment. She lost at least three years of being in the work force over all.” Now, her best friend is responsible for getting her to her operations, she said, forcing him to miss some time at work.In a 2010 paper, researchers estimated the economic burden for caregivers of patients with lung and colorectal cancer. They reported that the average cost to a caregiver in the initial phase of treatment was more than $7,000. After treatment, almost an additional $20,000 was spent on “continuing” care. A study published in Cancer the year before found that over a two-year period, caregiving costs were more than $72,000 for lung cancer, $66,000 for ovarian cancer, $59,000 for lymphoma, and $38,000 for breast cancer.The American Cancer Society’s page offers a lot of sympathy for caregivers in these situations, but it acknowledges that for many, there really aren’t any solid solutions other than asking for help from those around you.As I learned, treating someone with cancer takes a team of supporters. But everything I’ve written here could easily apply to those with a host of other illnesses and chronic conditions. Policies that address this issue are rare.In the United States, the Family and Medical Leave Act guarantees up to 12 workweeks of leave to care for a family member with a serious health problem. But that leave is unpaid; many people can’t afford not to work. It also applies only to a spouse, child or parent.Moreover, the Family and Medical Leave Act applies only to employees of companies with 50 employees or more, which leaves out about 40 percent of the work force.What about other nations? An Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development report from 2011 surveyed members, and found that even in the three-quarters of countries that had some form of paid leave, it was for no more than a month.AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam NossiterPARIS — The government began a publicity campaign this week warning Frenchmen and women of the dangers of too much drink.When it comes to wine and other alcohol, it said, “for your health, it’s maximum two glasses a day, and not every day.”France’s response? Deafening silence.The French media hardly bothered to react. Wine producers in the multibillion dollar industry scoffed. The neat rows of wicker chairs outside the ubiquitous cafes continued to buzz with patrons.How could it be otherwise in a country where the relationship to wine is so intimate? Where even the most humble corner grocery is certain to have a decent bottle of Bordeaux waiting for an emergency?Where the evening meal (and sometimes the midday meal) are not really meals at all without a bottle of wine on the table?Where even the president, Emmanuel Macron, reassured the big annual farm fair last year, “Me, I drink wine at noon, and at night.”?He added, pointedly, “Don’t give the French a hard time,” in a nod to one of his predecessors, Georges Pompidou, who first used the phrase.Another predecessor, Pierre Mendès-France, tried to promote milk consumption instead, in the 1950s. That was a big flop. The populist rabble-rouser Pierre Poujade responded, “You, Mr. Mendès, have inflicted a blow on every Frenchman.”Without going that far, several esteemed wine producers insisted Thursday that the scolds from the state’s public health agency, who now say that a quarter of the French exceed the recommended limit, are missing the point.Alcohol is a principal cause of avoidable death in France, the agency warned. No, wine is the opposite of death, the producers answered.It is about three essential elements of French life, they said: liberty, fraternity and the pursuit of pleasure.“Look, we agree with the moderation aspect, but on the other hand, we always feel that they’re picking on wine,” said Maurin Bérenger, a well-respected producer of the rich dark Cahors wine, in southwest France. “Even limiting it, this is a constraint on liberty,” he said.“The wine that we’re producing and that we champion, it’s to be consumed for pleasure, with moderation, and not to get drunk,” said Mr. Bérenger. He is one of thousands of wine producers in one of the bibles of French life, Le Guide Hachette des Vins, which tells you just about everything you need to know before you drink. (Regions, grapes, pairing …)French wine consumption has had its ups and downs. Even without the public health warning, in the last half-century it has declined by about 50 percent, according to Vin et Société, a consortium of wine industry actors.The old culture of the workman sidling up to the bar in the local cafe at 10 a.m. and demanding his small glass of red wine, or “petit rouge,” is far less prevalent, if it still exists at all.But a prewar marketing slogan still captures the essential spirit of wine’s place in French culture: “Wine is the sacred foodstuff that alights the fire of the French soul.”Véronique Desfontaine, who produces a succulent and subtle Burgundy with her two sons at Chamilly, was baffled by the health agency’s declaration.“I don’t agree with it at all,” she said. “Consuming wine is about sharing. The French drink wine because, for instance, they might have friends over,” she said. “They want to drink well. This is about quality.”She pointed out — and Vin et Société agrees — that most French wine drinking takes place around the dinner table, to accompany the meal.“Consuming wine at the table, this is the specific French cultural model,” said Vin et Société’s delegate-general, Krystel Lepresle. “It’s a cultural object,” she insisted.She and Ms. Desfontaine were too polite to say so, but the Anglo-Saxon culture of drinking to get drunk is far less present in French life, though not entirely absent.“The government says, ‘don’t drink.’ But we’re talking about another category of people here,” she said, confident that “those who appreciate quality wines won’t be affected by this publicity, no, not at all.”Mr. Bérenger, speaking from deepest rural France in the rolling hills of the Quercy region, sounded a frequently heard complaint.“There’s a disconnect between the officials, and what actually goes on in the country,” he said. “And this is very French. They are targeting a whole profession. Very clumsy.”Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MARCH 22, 2019

This joint typically feels the force of five to eight times your body weight with each step, making it the most stressed joint in the body:KneeHipAnkleBig toe jointConsuming sugary drinks was tied to an increased risk of:Death from cardiovascular diseaseDying from cancerPremature death from any causeAll of the aboveLifting weights has many benefits for older people, including motivating them to continue exercising, a new study found. About what percentage of older Americans routinely lift weights?8 percent17 percent28 percent42 percentSome patients cannot tolerate statin drugs because of muscle aches. The cholesterol-lowering medications also raise the risk of this problem in about 9 percent of patients:Skin rashesStrokeDiabetesHeart attacksThis ultrasound, of a pregnancy in Colombia, shows an extraordinarily rare finding:SeptupletsIdentical tripletsSemi-idential twins, one male, one femaleA twin fetus growing within a fetusIn Takotsubo syndrome, the heart begins to resemble a narrow-necked Japanese octopus trap called a takotsubo, usually as a result of severe stress. Takatsubo syndrome is also commonly referred to as:Heart failureAnginaA-fibBroken-heart syndromeThe Food and Drug Administration approved the first drug specifically targeted to treat this pregnancy complication, which affects up to one in seven new mothers: Morning sicknessPostpartum depressionAdvertisementSupported byPhys EdMen who could get through 40 or more push-ups had 96 percent less risk of heart problems in the next 10 years than those who quit at 10 or fewer.By Gretchen ReynoldsCould push-ups foretell the future and the state of a person’s heart?A new study in JAMA Network Open hints that this might be the case. It finds that men who can breeze through 40 push-ups in a single exercise session are substantially less likely to experience a heart attack or other cardiovascular problem in subsequent years than men who can complete 10 or fewer. The results suggest that push-up ability might be a simple, reliable and D.I.Y.-in-your-living-room method of assessing heart health, while at the same time helpfully strengthening the triceps and pectorals.As almost all of us know, cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death globally. Heart attacks and strokes also lead to considerable disability, lost work time and otherwise circumscribed lives and abilities.But avoiding or treating cardiovascular disease requires recognizing that it might have begun or is on the horizon. Many medical tests of heart health, however, such as treadmill exercise-stress testing or heart scans, are expensive and complicated and can be difficult to interpret.Many of these tests also generally are designed to pick up heart disease after it has started, not to predict the likelihood that it might develop. Meanwhile, mathematical risk scores that evaluate information about a person’s weight, cholesterol profile, smoking history and other health data are predictive, but in a way that is broad, impersonal and abstract.Physicians and the rest of us who rely on our hearts have had little ability to evaluate cardiovascular health and the risk for future problems in a simple, scientifically valid, personalized and visceral way.That void prompted researchers at Harvard University, Indiana University and other institutions recently to consider the health and fitness of a group of more than 1,500 Indiana firefighters. The firefighters reported each year to a single clinic in Indiana for a medical checkup that included the standard assessments of each firefighter’s weight, cholesterol, blood sugar and other health data. They also completed a submaximal treadmill stress test that estimated their current endurance capacity.The researchers originally were most interested in that last measurement. Plenty of past studies have linked high aerobic fitness with a reduced risk for later heart disease and vice versa. The researchers thought that they might be able to quantify how well the treadmill test predicted future heart problems by using the database of firefighters’ health information.So, they gathered information about each man’s stress test results — few women were working as career firefighters in this group, so only men were included. They also recorded any cardiovascular problems reported to or uncovered by clinic physicians in the 10 years after each firefighter’s first appointment. The data about heart problems was fairly comprehensive, since the firefighters needed their physician’s approval to return to work after even minor heart concerns.The researchers planned to compare stress test results to subsequent cardiovascular problems to get a sense of how prescient the treadmill testing might be.Then, almost incidentally, the researchers noticed that more than 1,100 of the firefighters also had completed push-up tests during their yearly exams. That testing had been bracingly analog: a clinic staffer counted how many push-ups each man could complete before his arms gave out or he reached 80 and was told he could quit showing off and stop.Since they had the push-up data, the researchers slipped it in as a second data set in their examination of current fitness and later heart problems, categorizing the men by how many push-ups they could complete: zero to 10; 11 to 20; 21 to 30; 31 to 40; and 40-plus.They then ran numbers.And to their surprise, push-up capability proved to be a better predictor, statistically, of future heart problems than the treadmill tests.Men who could complete at least 11 push-ups had less risk of developing heart problems in the following decade than those who could complete fewer than 10, they found.This risk reduction mounted impressively at the highest level of push-up ability. Those men who could get through 40 or more push-ups had 96 percent less risk of heart problems in the next 10 years than those who quit at 10 or fewer.The findings suggest that push-up capability might be an easy-to-use marker of cardiovascular disease risks, the researchers concluded, at least in men who resemble the firefighters.Of course, this study was observational. It can show that more push-ups are linked with fewer heart problems, but not that arm strength directly improves heart health or whether becoming able to do more push-ups will drop the risk for heart problems over time. It also cannot tell us how the two might be linked.But “muscular strength is one component of good fitness,” says Dr. Stefanos Kales, a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and senior author of the new study.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

FEB. 22, 2019

Firefighters who could do this many push-ups were less likely to develop heart disease in the next 10 years than those who could do 10 or fewer:11 to 2021 to 3031 to 40More than 40The flu season in the United States is peaking. The typical flu season kills about how many Americans?200 to 3002,000 to 3,00020,000 to 30,000200,000 to 300,000Three to four percent of people have a food intolerance or food allergy. This item is least likely to be on the list of offending foods: CheeseChocolateCitrus fruitsCruciferous vegetablesScientists are studying this animal in the hopes of finding ways to slow down metabolism and limit damage after a heart attack or injury: AxolotlTardigradeManateeTwo-toed slothStudies show the best treatment for most coughs is a medicine containing:A cough suppressantAn expectorantAn antihistamineEvidence is lacking that cough medicines help for most coughsOf the following, teenagers cited this as a top concern, according to a new survey by the Pew Research Center:BullyingGangsDepression and anxietyAlcohol and drugsThis childhood illness was declared eliminated in the United States in 2000, but so far this year there have been more than 100 reported cases:MeaslesMumpsAdvertisementSupported byHis definition of national greatness included a commitment to improving health care. A century after his death, we should follow his lead.By Patricia O’TooleMs. O’Toole, the author of “When Trumpets Call: Theodore Roosevelt After the White House,” is writing a book about Theodore Roosevelt and American health.Theodore Roosevelt died 100 years ago Sunday, on Jan. 6, 1919, at his home in Oyster Bay, N.Y. A pulmonary embolism, the doctors said.Americans found it hard to believe that Roosevelt was dead, much less that he had died in bed. For as long as they could remember, he had lived at full tilt. He was the frontiersman who faced down a grizzly, the Rough Rider who fought in the Spanish-American War, the presidential candidate who made a speech with a fresh bullet wound in his chest.The heroics thrilled countless American boys of the era — Ernest Hemingway among them — and their elders had cheered in 1899 when Roosevelt exhorted the country to get off its duff and take up “the strenuous life.” Toil, effort, high-minded endeavor — these were the things that made life worth living, in his opinion. If Americans surrendered to “ignoble ease,” he warned, they would never achieve national greatness.A century later, that is still how most Americans remember him. But a quieter part of his legacy also deserves to be celebrated, especially in an era of incessant discord over health care. Few Americans know that their most physically vigorous president was also the first major American political figure to advocate passionately for national health insurance. Theodore Roosevelt may have inspired he-men later in life, but he began life in delicate health, a fact he never forgot. Born in 1858, he soon developed asthma. In that era, asthmatics lived entirely at the mercy of their disease, not knowing when it would strike or if an attack would prove fatal. Roosevelt took up bodybuilding in his early teens, and as often happens, the asthma abated as he reached adulthood. Emerging from the ordeal as a fine physical specimen, he took pride in his strength, and for the rest of his life would exalt strength in nations as well as in men.If Roosevelt’s presidency had to be summed up in a word, “strength” would serve. He strengthened the office of the presidency as well as the regulatory power of the federal government. He refereed the unending contest between capital and labor, arguing that only the national government had enough power to ensure fair play. His foreign policy has been intelligently praised and intelligently damned, but beyond question, it strengthened the United States in world affairs in the opening decade of the 20th century.So great was Roosevelt’s preoccupation with strength that nearly all of his biographers have felt obliged to explain it. Most have seen it as a response to his childhood illness, and some have suggested that the early delicacy left him with insecurities about his masculinity. One example cited by the prosecution: “Sissy” was a favorite Rooseveltian insult. Another: He would not be photographed on the tennis court, because the game was played by women as well as by men.Given the vast attention paid to the causes of Roosevelt’s love of strength, there is a surprising lack of discussion about one of its most attractive effects: an exceptional sensitivity to the needs of the sick and others in the grip of circumstances beyond their control. Roosevelt’s efforts on behalf of workers exploited by employers have been well chronicled, but from his earliest days in politics until the last months of his life, he worked equally hard to improve the health of his fellow citizens. Who knew?The hole in the story is partly Roosevelt’s fault. His concern for public health crops up only a few times in his autobiography, and the stories told are presented as discrete episodes, not illustrations of a long commitment. In the first, he is a 23-year-old Republican freshman in the New York State Assembly, fighting for a ban on homemade cigars. As the representative of Manhattan’s silk stocking district, Roosevelt was expected to be a laissez-faire man, against government interference in business. But when he visited cigar makers in their tenements, he was appalled to find whole families suffering from eye, skin and lung ailments caused by prolonged exposure to raw tobacco. Roosevelt decided to champion a proposed ban and persuaded the Legislature to pass the bill. But a judge soon ruled that the new statute violated the sanctity of home. The decision gave Roosevelt his first taste of the opposition in store for politicians who challenged the untrammeled capitalism of the day.At 39, as Col. Roosevelt of the Rough Riders, he pressed for the speedy departure of American troops from Cuba at the end of the Spanish-American War. The War Department had wanted the troops to stay until a peace treaty was signed, but Washington relented when Roosevelt pointed out that the soldiers were at high risk of dying from disease. He was right: Ninety percent of the American war dead in Cuba had succumbed to yellow fever, malaria and poor sanitation.Eight years later, President Roosevelt won passage of the Meat Inspection Act and the Pure Food and Drug Act. He succeeded by seizing on public outrage over a best-selling novel, “The Jungle” by Upton Sinclair, which had exposed the stomach-turning conditions in Chicago’s meatpacking plants. Signed on the same day in 1906, the laws were milestones in health and in federal regulation of business for the public good.Apart from those measures, Roosevelt had little success in persuading Congress to enact more laws to improve health. Though he fought on, he found himself up against a host of entrenched forces: a public suspicious of governmental power, the judiciary’s habit of treating social legislation as an infringement on individual liberties and the South’s alarm at the growing power of the national government. As president, Roosevelt was aware that the governments of Germany, France and Britain had set up programs to help their citizens stave off the financial catastrophes associated with old age, illness, injury, unemployment and loss of a breadwinner. He was embarrassed that the United States had nothing comparable. The idea of using the government’s strength to assist those unable to fend for themselves seemed to him a mark of national greatness. And there were few things he coveted more than Europe’s recognition of American greatness.Unable to make any legislative progress on this front, Roosevelt resorted to other tactics. He issued dozens of executive orders creating federal wildlife refuges on public land, a move that protected animals and reduced pollution. He also made liberal use of presidential commissions. The Inland Waterways Commission was established in 1907 to manage the nation’s lakes and rivers and to develop their potential as a transportation network. The ostensible goals were economic, but the plan also called for flood control, soil reclamation and pollution abatement — all boons to public health.Toward the end of his presidency, Roosevelt appointed a White House commission to study the problems of rural life. Among the chief topics of the group’s report was the poor state of health in the hinterlands. Farms ought to be healthy places to live, the commissioners wrote, but doctors and nurses were scarce, and most rural Americans had not been schooled in the rudiments of hygiene. While some states had public health departments, many did not. And because of widespread antipathy to federal power, officials could not intervene except to address outbreaks of disease among farm animals. Treading softly, the commission made only mild recommendations: basic education in hygiene and sanitation, and a promise of federal help in health matters if a state requested it.Roosevelt also invented the White House conference, giving himself yet another way to act without Congress. In 1908 he hosted a conference of governors, focused on conservation, and nearly every governor present went home and formed a state conservation commission. The experience was a victory for conservation and public health, and it offered a model for federal-state collaboration on matters affecting the well-being of all Americans.The most notable of Roosevelt’s White House conferences, on dependent children, took place a few weeks before he left office. The idea came from a young lawyer who had grown up in an orphanage and was pressing for governmental subsidies to widowed mothers, whose poverty often forced them to place their children in orphanages. Roosevelt issued the invitations on Dec. 25, 1908, a date surely not chosen at random.On Jan. 25, 1909, Jane Addams, Booker T. Washington, and some 200 child welfare advocates, juvenile court judges, directors of orphanages and leaders of social service organizations turned out for the White House Conference on the Care of Dependent Children. Considered a landmark in American social policy, the conference led to the establishment of the United States Children’s Bureau, spurred the growth of adoption agencies and inspired the founding the Child Welfare League of America.When Roosevelt left office, on March 4, his files were thick with correspondence from social activists, urban reformers, physicians and others who shared his belief that the federal government ought to play a larger role in advancing health and well-being. On a two-month tour of Europe in 1910, he made a point of meeting politicians and social reformers who had helped to put up the first government-sponsored social safety nets. Two years later, disturbed by the Republicans’ drift to the political right, Roosevelt defected from the G.O.P., formed the National Progressive Party, and made a rogue run for an unprecedented third term in the White House (he entered office in 1901, after William McKinley was assassinated). With the insights he gained in Europe and the help of American experts on health and welfare, he and his allies crafted one of the most socially progressive party platforms in American history. It called for universal health insurance; a national public health service; insurance for the elderly, the unemployed and the disabled; the end of child labor; the abolition of the seven-day workweek; and a minimum wage ample enough to support a family of four, provide for recreation and allow savings for a rainy day.After losing the election, Roosevelt continued to engage in politics through hundreds of newspaper columns and magazine articles. The social agenda of his 1912 platform lived on, inspiring progressives of both parties. And with the Social Security Act of 1935, Franklin Roosevelt secured much of what his distant cousin Theodore had been striving for: old-age insurance, unemployment insurance, aid to families with dependent children, and support for the disabled. Opposition from the medical profession blocked the path to national health insurance, and opposition from the South ensured that Social Security would exclude domestic and agricultural labor, major occupations of African-Americans.Theodore Roosevelt was not perfect. He was not progressive on race. Nor was he in the vanguard of the fight for a constitutional amendment giving all American women the right to vote. Despite his many collaborations with women reformers working to address the needs of the sick and the poor, he would always believe that a woman’s true place was in the home.Roosevelt’s efforts in the field of health yielded more defeats than triumphs. No politician relishes defeat, but as the preacher of the risk-taking strenuous life, he could hardly whine about his losses. Ultimately he decided that the man who mattered most was the man in the arena, taking his lumps and carrying on. Such a man might make mistakes, Roosevelt said, and he might come up short, but he is striving valiantly, spending himself in a worthy cause, and “if he fails, he at least fails while daring greatly.”If life dealt Theodore Roosevelt the high cards of wealth and privilege, the long suit of his boyhood was a life-threatening illness. The experience might have produced a man who lived on his inheritance and shied away from all things strenuous. This boy, willing and able to make himself strong, entered the political arena and fought against long odds for the health and well-being of his fellow citizens — a worthy cause if ever there was one. There may be no better way for the country to honor his memory than to get off its duff and persevere until all Americans have decent health care.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MARCH 15, 2019

True or false? Exercise can often be as effective as medications in reducing blood pressure and body fat. TrueFalseResearchers in Singapore reported that older adults who ate this food several times a week were at reduced risk of developing mild cognitive impairment, often a precursor to Alzheimer's disease:ApplesOrangesMushroomsBroccoliThis juice may be particularly likely to affect levels of thyroid drugs, statins and many other medications:Orange juiceGrapefruit juiceCarrot juiceTomato juiceThis state has has one of the highest rates of unvaccinated residents in the country, with 7.5 percent of kindergarten-age children unvaccinated for nonmedical reasons: ArkansasAlabamaOregonTexasTrue or false? The more siblings a child has, the less likely he or she is to develop hay fever.TrueFalseThe American Cancer Society recommends colon cancer screening beginning at age:40455060True or false? Studies confirm that yoga can be very effective for treating urinary incontinence.AdvertisementSupported byI moved to Europe because I couldn’t afford to be a cancer patient in America. I’d rather have been able to stay home.By Erica RexMs. Rex is a science writer.TOURS, France — A dozen of us sit expectantly in the orthopedic surgeon’s waiting room. We’re here for follow-ups. Some, like me, have had bunions removed. Others have had hips or knees replaced. Most are older women.The copies of Paris Match and Le Monde on the table are at least six months old. The only artwork is a framed print of Claude Monet’s “Poppy Fields Near Argenteuil.” Since I’m only two weeks out from surgery and can’t drive, I came by taxi. The fare was underwritten by the French social security system, known familiarly as la Sécu, which also provides health insurance for all residents.The woman seated opposite me tells me she’s on her second bunion surgery. Her doctor, a top orthopedic surgeon, charges more than the normal Sécu compensation, as do many specialists. Most French people purchase a supplementary insurance plan to cover costs not picked up by la Sécu. As a French resident and taxpayer, I have one too.Another woman is recovering from a hip replacement. Medical chat is common in French waiting rooms. If the wait is long, everyone comes to know everything about one another’s complaints.To my friends in the United States, this casual attitude seems foolish, even risky. But in France, medical privacy is irrelevant. No one will lose her job because of a lengthy convalescence. There is no possibility that pre-existing conditions will make insurance unaffordable. Unemployed people still receive treatment. Huge medical bills do not reduce ordinary citizens to a state of existential terror. The absence of unease over health care alters the texture of French experience. We get cozy in waiting rooms.A woman in her late 60s sits next to me. She fidgets and appears close to tears. She leans over and asks in a low voice how long it has been since my surgery. She’s wearing the orthopedic boot, but unlike the rest of us bunion ladies, she’s still using crutches. She tells me she had surgery four weeks ago and believes something is wrong.The woman across from me leans forward.“Que s'est-il passé?” What happened? My neighbor describes a “sensation de craquement” — the feeling that the bones in her foot are crunching when she puts weight on it.Three other women reassure her: The bone crunching is normal. Those bones had to be broken and realigned to reshape her foot. Yes, but the physical therapist told her that the doctor had botched something. Now she’s frightened. The therapist was completely wrong, we tell her. She seems relieved, but grows worried again when she realizes she should have restarted physical therapy sessions a month ago.Then the doctor appears and calls the woman’s name. Even rock-star orthopedists here don’t have nurses helping them in their offices. The doctor changes his own examining table paper. His staff consists of two foul-tempered office assistants who make appointments, take payments and hand out prescriptions.The woman picks up her crutches. He raises his hands in question. The crutches? Still? She fights back tears. We reassure her it will be fine. She limps after him into the examining room, dragging the crutches in one hand.I am an accidental European. I developed breast cancer in 2009. With no continuing medical coverage in the United States, and in desperate need of it, I moved to Britain. Under the sponsorship of an acquaintance, I was granted “indefinite leave to remain” and received care through the National Health Service. When I moved to France four years ago, the French system quickly took over covering me.It has taken me nine years to grow accustomed to the idea that my health care won’t suddenly evaporate at the whim of a new government. Doctors here often ask how I landed in Europe. When I tell them, they shake their heads. American values are deranged, they say.Sometimes I encounter Americans for whom visiting France is like a trip to Disneyland, only with foie gras, and they’ll ask about medical care.One such visitor, on learning I have a “carte vitale,” a social security card, asked, “How did you score that?” as if health insurance was like box seats at a Yankees-Red Sox game.I don’t live in the promotional brochure version of France those Americans are touring. France for me was not a vacation selection. Moving to Europe was a choice weighed against other, grimmer options for health care, which included the strong possibility of being bankrupted by cancer treatment and winding up at the mercy of New York State’s welfare system.In France I can rest assured I will not be refused care for any treatable condition, including a painful bunion — or yes, even a recurrence of breast cancer. All the same, I’d rather have been able to get coverage without emigrating. Too many Americans do not realize how much better off they would be if they felt safer about access to medical care. Imagine what might happen if everyone felt safe — safe enough to talk about ailments in waiting rooms.AdvertisementSupported byBy Des ShoeThis is the final edition of The Week in Good News. After more than a year, we’re closing this feature as we move ahead with new projects. The surprising and inspiring journalism you have seen here can still be found across The New York Times, so we encourage you to take a deep dive into all it has to offer. You may be delighted at what you come across. Thank you for reading, and we wish you all the absolute best.Here are seven great things we wrote about this week:A single mutation in one errant gene causes this disease, which has devastating effects. But advances in gene therapy have scientists talking about the possibility of a cure.In a half-dozen clinical trials planned or underway, researchers are testing strategies for correcting the problem at the genetic level. Already a handful of the enrolled patients, who have endured an illness that causes excruciating bouts of pain, strokes and early death, no longer show signs of the disease. Read more »Baracat Paiva is the highest-volume fish cutter at the Boston wholesaler Wulf’s Fish. Videos of his knife skills have drawn hundreds of thousands of views and comments from admirers around the world, who are mesmerized by how his swift, graceful motions break down huge fish into fillets in seconds.Even more surprising? A little over a decade ago, Mr. Paiva had never even touched a fish knife. He was a professional soccer player in Brazil.“I was in love, but that love ended,” he said. “I found another passion.” Read more »The Thunderbird American Indian Dancers are the oldest all-volunteer troupe of their kind in New York. They also raise scholarship funds for Native American students. Their repertory has grown to encompass dances from across America and parts of Canada, and a recent program featured a Deer Dance from the Yaqui Tribes of southern Arizona and New Mexico, among many others.We talked to the troupe’s director, Louis Mofsie, about its history and mission. Be sure to take a look at the photos, as well. Read more »As long as you don’t cut off their heads, these smiling salamanders can grow back a nearly perfect replica of any body part, including up to half of their brain.To understand how they evolved this level of healing, researchers looked to the animal’s genome (which is 10 times the size of the human genome). They reported the most complete assembly of DNA yet for the striking creatures. Their work paves the way for advances in regenerative medicine. Read more »Ronald Braunstein, who has bipolar disorder, has experienced the benefits of music for his own mental health. He set out to bring them to others by founding orchestras in which all the performers have been affected by mental illness. His new venture was called the Me2/Orchestra, because when he told other musicians about his diagnosis, they’d often respond, “Me, too.”At each performance, a few musicians talk about their mental illnesses and take questions. “Instead of thinking people with mental illness are lazy or dangerous, they see what we’re capable of,” Mr. Braunstein said. “It has a positive effect on all of us.” Read more »There are now more comic books published annually in France and Belgium than ever before, according to the artistic director of the Angoulême International Comics Festival in France, which finished last Sunday. “The market has risen from 700 books per year in the 1990s to 5,000 this year,” he said in an interview. “I don’t know any cultural industry which has had that kind of increase.”The attendance at the festival by government officials underscored the way the “ninth art,” as comic books are sometimes referred to in France, is not a niche pursuit but a mainstream activity. Read more »These are the images of a baseball player, a change agent, a human being and a humanitarian. Many of the selections come from our archives, rounded out with images from other sources. Though he has been gone now nearly as long as he lived, Mr. Robinson’s legacy continues to resonate. Read more »AdvertisementSupported byBy Janet MorrisseyWhen Jeff Dachis suddenly and unexpectedly learned he had Type 1 diabetes at the age of 46 in September 2013, he was stunned. After all, he ran marathons, followed a healthy diet and never had an inkling of any medical troubles during previous annual physicals.“I went to the doctor, got about six minutes with a nurse practitioner, an insulin pen, a prescription and a pat on the back, and I was out the door,” Mr. Dachis said. “I was terrified. I had no idea what this condition was about or how to address it.”Feeling confused and scared, he decided to leverage his expertise in digital marketing, technology and big data analytics to create a company, One Drop, that helps diabetics understand and manage their disease.The One Drop system combines sensors, an app, and a Bluetooth glucose meter to track and monitor a diabetic’s blood glucose levels, food, exercise and medication. It uses artificial intelligence to predict the person’s blood glucose level over the next 24 hours and even suggests ways the person can control fluctuations, such as walking or exercising to offset high sugar levels — or eating a candy bar to raise low glucose levels. Users can also text a diabetes coach with questions in real time.With 30 million Americans living with diabetes, Mr. Dachis said he knew the potential market for his technology was big. Indeed, more than one million people have downloaded the app to date, he said.One Drop is among a surging number of companies that are using “internet of things,” also known as IoT, technology to create new treatments in the health care sector.“Advances like robotics, nanotechnology, genetic engineering, 3-D printing, artificial intelligence, and IoT are fueling an exciting era within health care innovation,” said Jeff Becker, a senior analyst and health care I.T. expert at Forrester. “Many of these efforts will undoubtedly fall flat, but some could end up as transformative as the X-ray itself.”And consumers are paying attention.About 79 percent of consumers surveyed in the United States said technology is important to managing their health, according to a 2019 report by Accenture.The latest tech-related medical treatment advances run the gamut from implants that help paralyzed people walk to smart pills that detect when patients fail to take their medication.Spinal cord research took a major step forward when a 29-year-old man, who had been paralyzed from the chest down since a snowmobile accident in 2013, was able to walk the distance of a football field with the help of a rolling walker. The milestone, which was published in Nature Medicine last fall, came after a team of researchers at the Mayo Clinic implanted an epidural electrical stimulator device into the man's lower spine and gave him six months of intensive physical therapy.“This is a revolutionary breakthrough,” said Kendall Lee, a neurosurgeon and director of neural engineering laboratories at the Mayo Clinic. He said the device had so far been successfully implanted in two people.While the implant isn’t a cure, it offers hope to millions of paralyzed people around the world. But Dr. Lee was careful to note that the technology is still some time away from being publicly available.“We were able to do the study under the F.D.A.’s investigational device exemption,” Dr. Lee said. “This is not something for the general population yet.”At least three different research groups — Mayo Clinic, University of Louisville and the University of California, Los Angeles — are now aggressively expanding their trials to include more patients.Then there’s the smart pill. The World Health Organization estimated that 50 percent of people with chronic diseases in developed countries fail to take their medicines as prescribed, whether from forgetfulness, concern about side effects or other reasons.This noncompliance costs the health care system in the United States from $100 billion to $290 billion a year from emergency room visits, hospital stays and other costs related to worsening medical conditions, according to the Network for Excellence in Health Innovation.AdhereTech built a smart pill bottle that alerts patients when it’s time to take a medication and sends an automated text or phone message if they miss a dose in real time. But it only tracks the use and contents of the bottle, so there’s no definitive way to detect whether a person has actually swallowed the pill.The pharmaceutical maker Otsuka goes a step further: It worked with Proteus Digital Health to create a digital smart pill for Otsuka’s Abilify medication, which is used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and depression. The Abilify MyCite pill, which will be rolled out in the next few months, is embedded with a sensor that’s activated by stomach acids. The sensor is tracked by a patch worn on the person’s stomach, which then sends the information to a smartphone app, where the patient and doctor can track when the medication was taken — and even send notifications if it hasn’t.But the technology goes far beyond pill-taking reminders, said Andrew Thompson, co-founder, president and chief executive of Proteus Digital Health. The sensor patch also tracks physical activity, heart rate, rest patterns and other metrics, which will help doctors and patients know whether a medication is working and the right dose has been prescribed.The Abilify MyCite pill doesn’t come cheap: It will cost $1,650 a month, significantly more than the $30-to-$40-a-month cost of a generic version of the Abilify pill. However, most patients would only take the digital pill for two to three months — just enough time to collect data on pill-taking adherence, dosage and health impact to revise a treatment plan, Andrew Wright, Otsuka’s vice president of Digital Medicine, said.Efforts are now underway for both Proteus and Otsuka to add the technology to pills for other chronic conditions. Mr. Thompson believes it’s the future.“Years from now your grandchildren or your children will be incredulous that you put things into your body and didn’t know if they were real or fake, the right dose or the wrong dose, in-date or out-of-date,” Mr. Thompson said. “So yes, eventually this will be in every drug everywhere.”In the world of prosthetics, scientists have found a way for tetraplegics — those paralyzed from the neck down — to feel touch by electrically stimulating parts of the brain. Paralysis can mean the loss of both control and feeling in affected areas, and while prosthetics can return motor function, sensing requires treatment of the nervous system itself.Initially, the challenge seemed daunting, considering the brain contains 100 billion neurons, and matching up the neurons that control sensory nerves with the prosthetic hands and arms was tough, said Sliman Bensmaia, an associate professor in the department of organismal biology and anatomy at the University of Chicago, who was part of the research team. But after surgically placing an electrode implant into the brain, the team was able to electrically stimulate the portions of the brain that controlled sensation, allowing the patient to feel the size, shape and texture of objects and to tell when a finger was touched.Plans are now in the works to expand human trials at the University of Pittsburgh, Johns Hopkins University and the University of Chicago. The biggest challenge now? Making the brain implant wireless and upgrading it so that it doesn’t wear out after five years.“You can’t be having brain surgery every few years,” Dr. Bensmaia said. “We need an array or implant technology that lasts a lifetime.”Dr. Bensmaia said the brain implant technology could someday have far-reaching applications, such as improving memory or retrieving information faster.Another hot area: The use of 3-D printers to create patient-specific medical devices, like knee joints and spinal implants. The printers make it faster, easier and cheaper to make customized medical devices based on a patient’s M.R.I. and C.T. scans.“They can be made in one-fifth to one-tenth” of the time that traditional custom-made devices are made, said Scott Hollister, a professor in the department of biomedical engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology and Emory University. And 3-D printed devices often fit far better, cause fewer complications and require a shorter recovery period than off-the-shelf joint replacements that come in sizes small, medium and large.At least 80 3-D-printed devices have received F.D.A. approval as of 2016, although their use has largely been confined to academic and research hospitals.While many of these breakthrough technologies have shown promise in clinical trials, experts caution there’s no guarantee they’ll ever make it to market.Mr. Becker, the Forrester analyst, cited the disastrous example of Theranos, which made false claims for years that it had a revolutionary blood-testing technology that only required a small amount of blood. The company raised more than $700 million, was valued at $9 billion at its peak in 2014, and made its founder Elizabeth Holmes a billionaire, before collapsing after scientists and regulators discovered the technology didn’t work.“Theranos is the pockmark of health care I.T.,” Mr. Becker said.But sometimes it’s not malicious — it’s just promising science that doesn’t pan out.In 2014, the Google X lab, now called Verily, unveiled news — with much fanfare — that it was developing a smart contact lens that could monitor blood glucose levels in real-time by measuring tear fluid in the eye. The company’s partner on the project, Novartis, said it expected to have the device on store shelves within five years.“This was huge news — the holy grail of life sciences — it was something that everybody wanted to be the first to bring to market,” Mr. Becker said.But then, “we all waited for updates and nothing came — just radio silence.” Last November, the company announced that the project had been scrapped because of inconsistent testing results.“So, clearly the science wasn’t there,” Mr. Becker said. “They prematurely announced it, got excited about it, they made a big splash, and it was all for naught.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Priya KrishnaOne day last month, a New York City health inspector showed up at the juice cart at 54th Street and Avenue of the Americas where Long Huynh works. The inspector spent about an hour examining ingredients for freshness, and making sure the work equipment and surfaces were spotless and organized.“He got up all inside there,” said Mr. Huynh, 54. “But I am very particular. I clean the inside well.”Mr. Huynh’s diligence was rewarded Friday when his cart became one of the first to receive a letter grade from the city Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. A placard bearing a blue A was affixed to the front of the cart. “They gave me the big one,” he said.Since 2010, city inspectors have been assigning grades to restaurants, which are required to post them prominently, as a way to heighten awareness of food safety and hold restaurants more accountable. Though owners still complain about the fairness of the grading, and the fines that accompany violations, the practice has become more or less accepted; today, more than 90 percent of the city’s 24,000 restaurants receive A grades.Until now, the more than 5,000 food carts and trucks have been inspected, but not graded. On Friday, the health department handed out the first 22 grades, in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens. All but a few were As, the department said.The immediate response, from both vendors and customers, ranged from approval to a collective shrug.“It was a pretty easy process,” said Ahmed Eltawil, 46, who works at the Casablanca Halal Food cart in Harlem, which received an A, even though it was cited for minor violations like improperly maintained flooring and improper storage of ice-handling utensils. “These grades are a very good thing for business.”The department announced in November that it would begin grading the carts and trucks, and attaching location-sharing devices to the vehicles to help inspectors find them. The move followed passage of a bill sponsored by City Councilwoman Karen Koslowitz that Mayor Bill de Blasio signed into law in June.“The customers who buy food from a street vendor deserve to have the same ability to make an informed decision as patrons of restaurants,” Ms. Koslowitz said this week in a statement. “The A, B, C or ‘Grade Pending’ carries with it real significance.”Corinne Schiff, the city’s deputy commissioner of environmental health, said food carts and trucks would be evaluated on the same criteria as restaurants, by the same set of health inspectors and with the same schedule of fines. All the violations and grades will be posted online.She said the department aimed to grade all mobile vendors in the next two years. To aid in the effort, four inspectors have been added to the inspection staff of more than 100.While some aspects of restaurant grading — like a bathroom inspection — aren’t as relevant to food trucks and carts, Ms. Schiff said the vehicles were susceptible to the same kinds of violations. “Space is something that we all contend with in New York,” she said. “It can be a challenge to hold food at the right temperature or have the right equipment whether you are a truck, a cart or a restaurant.”But Matthew Shapiro, the legal director of the Street Vendor Project at the Urban Justice Center, an advocacy group for vendors, disagreed. A cart or truck “is a much smaller space, with limited refrigeration and hot holding areas, and a potable water tank instead of water from the building,” he said. “I am not saying it is easy to run a restaurant, but vendors have unique challenges, while still being held to the same standard.”Several vendors said Friday they were content with the new grading system. Nurun Nabi, 50, who runs a fruit cart on Avenue of the Americas near 23rd Street (which also received an A), said the inspector was very considerate. “They don’t give me a hard time,’ he said. “They ask everything very nicely.”Vendors and restaurateurs who receive less than an A are given a chance to address problems before a reinspection. At a news conference on Friday, the health commissioner, Dr. Oxiris Barbot, said her department no longer fines businesses with top grades for minor violations.“As part of getting an A, we waive those fines,” she said. “The purpose of this is not to fine vendors, but to make sure they are meeting these standards.”Some customers said the new grades didn’t seem to carry much weight.“I still don’t think the food here is clean,” said Scotty Kamaladvin, 71, a retired maintenance worker, eyeing the A grade on a halal cart on Avenue of the Americas at 29th Street that he has been frequenting for decades. “But I like this guy. It is cheap. My children wouldn’t eat it, but it’s convenient for me.”Mohammed Diallo, 38, an I.T. engineer, said he paid more attention to Yelp reviews of food carts. “The A grade doesn’t make me feel differently about a place,” he said. “I like the food that I like: Mediterranean, halal or African. I don’t feel better about a McDonald’s if there is an A.”The most distinctive aspect of the new policy is the location-sharing device that will be installed on each cart or truck. In the past, the department used data analytics to pinpoint locations, but they weren’t always accurate. Now, as each vehicle renews its one- or two-year health department permit, the device will be installed. Then the cart can be graded.To protect the privacy of vendors, department officials said, location data will be deleted from the department’s internal database after 24 hours.Still, Mr. Shapiro, of the Street Vendor Project, worries about the ways the devices could be misused, especially since some vendors are undocumented immigrants, living in fear of detention by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.“If ICE had a list of names that happened to be mobile food vendors and told the health department they needed the locations of these vendors, would the department comply?” he said. “That would be the worst-case scenario. We are supposed to be a sanctuary city.”A health department spokesman, Michael Lanza, said, “We couldn’t do that because we don’t store the data by name,” only by location.Follow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — The Trump administration has warned scientists doing biomedical research at American universities that they may be targets of Chinese spies trying to steal and exploit information from their laboratories.Scientists and universities receiving funds from the National Institutes of Health for cutting-edge research need to tighten their security procedures and take other precautions, said a panel of experts commissioned by the agency to investigate “foreign influences on research integrity.”“Unfortunately, some foreign governments have initiated systematic programs to unduly influence and capitalize on U.S.-conducted research, including that funded by N.I.H.,” the panel said in a report last month to the director of the N.I.H., Dr. Francis S. Collins.“Nontraditional collectors of information,” as Dr. Collins and Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, call the data thieves, have shared intellectual property with Beijing, run “shadow laboratories” in China and even pilfered biomedical secrets from confidential grant applications — all using a research system funded by American taxpayers.“N.I.H. has basically been operating on the principle that everyone is well intentioned,” said Scott Kennedy, an expert on China at the Center for Strategic and International Studies who briefed the N.I.H. working group. “Then they run smack dab into the challenge of China, which has millions of researchers scrambling for money and for fame and for national glory. That creates an environment where some people may feel pressure to skirt, ignore or break the rules.”In some cases, Dr. Collins and Mr. Wray said, Chinese graduate students or visitors have taken intellectual property from American laboratories and given it to Chinese scientists or arms of the Chinese government, which published and commercialized the findings.In other cases, scientists who received grants from the N.I.H. had shadow laboratories in China, which also received funds from the Chinese government. The foreign funding and affiliations were, in some cases, unknown to the National Institutes of Health and even to the American universities where the scientists worked.Particularly worrisome to American officials was the finding that China had somehow obtained confidential information from applications for N.I.H. research grants. Under federal law, the N.I.H. uses an elaborate process of peer review to evaluate applications, and information in the applications — providing valuable insights into some of the world’s most advanced biomedical research — is supposed to remain confidential.Congress has poured money into the institutes, which have a budget of $39 billion this year, up 30 percent from 2014, and lawmakers say the agency has been phenomenally productive. More than $4 out of every $5 is distributed to researchers around the country studying cancer, heart disease, diabetes and myriad other conditions.In a letter to more than 10,000 institutions that receive grants from the N.I.H., Dr. Collins said he was concerned about the “sharing of confidential information on grant applications by N.I.H. peer reviewers with others, including foreign entities.”N.I.H. officials said they had already taken some steps, like the letter, to remind grantees of their responsibilities and were having their lawyers review other possible measures to tighten security. The Trump administration has broadly sought to crack down on what it views as Chinese theft of American technology and has, for example, moved to limit the duration of visas for some Chinese students in certain high-tech fields.The expert panel said that “peer review is a cornerstone of N.I.H. activities,” so violations, though uncommon, are “extremely problematic.”The institutes confirmed “breaches in the integrity” of the peer review process, but refused to provide details, saying some cases were still under investigation.“The biomedical research enterprise is under constant threat by risks to the security of intellectual property and the integrity of peer review,” Dr. Collins said, and “the magnitude of these risks is increasing.”Health officials are trying to balance the need to protect against foreign threats with the openness and collaboration that have long been prized by scientists. “The vast majority of foreign nationals make incredibly important contributions to American science,” Dr. Collins said.The chairman of the panel, Dr. M. Roy Wilson, the president of Wayne State University, in Detroit, said a Chinese talent-recruitment program appeared to be “a particular source of many of these infractions.” The 10-year-old program, known as the Thousand Talents Plan, aims to lure global experts from Western universities and private companies to work in China and build its capabilities in science and technology.China has seen a surge in spending on science and technology in the past decade, along with a huge increase in the number of articles published by Chinese scientists in peer-reviewed journals, according to the National Science Foundation.The F.B.I. works with universities to make them aware of the risks and has even circulated a guide to “academic espionage tradecraft.”But Mr. Wray, the bureau director, told Congress last year that “the level of naïveté on the part of the academic sector about this creates its own issues.”China, he said, is “exploiting the very open research and development environment that we have, which we all revere.”Researchers who receive N.I.H. grants are supposed to report other sources of financial support for their work, but the requirements are somewhat vague and have not been vigorously enforced.“It is not clear that these disclosure requirements adequately address the significant and pervasive threats posed by foreign entities to our research institutions and the integrity of taxpayer-funded studies,” Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, said in a recent letter to Dr. Collins.Far from denying or minimizing the problem, some American college presidents and medical school deans welcome federal efforts to alert them to foreign influences affecting the work of their faculty members.“In our perception, this is a very serious problem,” said Dr. Ross McKinney Jr., the chief scientific officer at the Association of American Medical Colleges, whose members receive large amounts of money from the N.I.H. “We still view research as a collaborative endeavor, but there is a sense that there may be some cheating going on.”Dr. McKinney said it appeared that researchers with well-funded “shadow labs” in China had been instructed not to disclose their existence to the N.I.H. because few did so.This had two perverse effects. “Those scientists could have a competitive advantage over other people applying for N.I.H. funds because they had two labs doing the work of one,” Dr. McKinney said. “In addition, they could claim that the discoveries occurred in China, even if they were really a result of research originally performed in the U.S., and the Chinese lab could keep the ideas as trade secrets for further development.”Under federal law, economic espionage involving the misappropriation of trade secrets for the benefit of a foreign government is a crime.Dr. Lawrence A. Tabak, the principal deputy director of the National Institutes of Health, said that the “N.I.H. is not a law enforcement agency” and “does not conduct law enforcement investigations.”But he said his agency worked closely with the Justice Department to prevent “unacceptable breaches of trust and confidentiality that undermine the integrity of U.S. biomedical research.”The advisory panel, which had eight members, including five university presidents, said the N.I.H. should expand the disclosure requirements and make them more explicit, to “reduce the risk of data misappropriation.”The N.I.H. has told universities that federal officials also want to know about “duplicative funding for the same or similar projects.” And it urged universities to “reach out to an F.B.I. field office” to obtain additional information.“Even though you could argue that what we’re doing doesn’t relate to the national security, in a sense it does relate to our economic security,” Dr. Tabak said. “And it’s produced with taxpayer dollars.”Advertisement
MARCH 1, 2019

Related Article
The best type of exercise to burn fat may be:A few minutes of intense exercise, repeatedA longer, moderate-intensity workout, like joggingBoth are about equally effective, though very intense exercise may offer additional benefitsThe main physiological reason that we yawn is to:Activate the brainRelieve muscle tensionTrigger the release of hormones that regulate wakefulnessScientists still aren't sure why we yawnStudies show that cannabidiol, or CBD, the nonpsychoactive component in marijuana, may be effective for:Easing painSlowing progression of multiple sclerosisReducing seizures in childrenAll of the aboveThe leading cause of fatal and nonfatal injuries among older Americans is:Car crashesFallsMedication overdosesMedical errorsBill Jenkins, a government epidemiologist who died in February, tried to call attention to the infamous Tuskegee study, in which black men were left untreated for this disease:GonorrheaSyphilisH.I.V. infectionTuberculosisSome 22 million Americans have sleep apnea, which causes people to wake up and gasp for air many times during the night. Sleep apnea can raise the risk of:High blood pressureHeart diseaseType 2 diabetesAll of the aboveChildren were more likely to suffer mistreatment when bad report cards were handed out on this day of the week:MondayWednesdayAdvertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

APRIL 12, 2019

This animal food is least likely to contribute to greenhouse gas emissions:BeefPoultryFishEggsCollege students who remained sedentary for at least this many hours a day showed few of the metabolic benefits from rigorous exercise:8101315This newly discovered fungus causes life-threatening, drug-resistant infections and is spreading worldwide:Candida albicansCandida aurisCryptococcus neoformansCoccidioidesA newly approved drug called Evenity offers new hope for osteoporosis. One in three women will suffer a bone fracture because of osteoporosis. How many men will suffer a fracture because of brittle bones?One in 10One in eightOne in fiveOne in threeTaking this dietary supplement was tied to a longer life span:CalciumVitamin DMultivitaminDietary supplements had no effect on longevityNew York City is requiring mandatory vaccinations against this illness, following an outbreak in Brooklyn:RabiesMeaslesMeningitisCholeraHaving very low levels of cholesterol was tied to an increased risk of:Heart attackStrokeAdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — Democrats, claiming a mandate from voters, opened a legislative campaign on Wednesday to secure protections under the Affordable Care Act for people with pre-existing medical conditions, putting aside divisions over a more ambitious push for “Medicare for all” in favor of shoring up existing law.“Health care was the single most important issue to voters in the 2018 election,” said Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Democrat of California, as she convened a hearing on a decision by a federal district judge in Texas that would invalidate the entire law.In the court case, filed by Texas and 19 other states, the Trump administration has refused to defend provisions of the Affordable Care Act that protect people with pre-existing conditions.On the day of the court decision in December, President Trump hailed it as “Great news for America!”But in his State of the Union address on Tuesday, he said it was now important “to protect patients with pre-existing conditions.” More than any other issue, health care was the policy that united Democratic campaigns last fall, specifically a promise to protect existing law that prohibits insurance companies from charging higher premiums or blocking coverage for customers with pre-existing medical conditions.Now in charge of the House, Democrats are divided over how far and how fast to go to expand health insurance coverage — and whether to push for a single, government-run system like Medicare for all. But some lawmakers have expressed impatience with the pace of legislative efforts on the one issue they agree on: protecting pre-existing condition coverage.Experts and ordinary citizens told Congress on Wednesday that Mr. Trump’s position in the Texas court case could be devastating to some patients.“Families like mine — families with medically complex children — are terrified of what this lawsuit may mean for our kids,” said Elena Hung, whose 4-year-old daughter was born with chronic medical conditions that affect her lungs, heart and kidneys.“Our lives are already filled with uncertainty — about diagnoses, the effects of medications and the outcomes of surgeries,” said Ms. Hung, who helped found a child advocacy group called Little Lobbyists. “The one certainty we have is the Affordable Care Act and the protections it provides.”The priorities of the new House majority were on display on Wednesday as three subcommittees held hearings to investigate Mr. Trump’s efforts to dismantle the Affordable Care Act in the last two years.Democrats said they would try to strengthen the law and restore funds cut by the Trump administration for insurance counselors who help people enroll in health plans. They said they would also try to prevent the White House from granting waivers to state insurance programs that skirt the Affordable Care Act.Representative Lauren Underwood, a freshman Democrat from Illinois, introduced a bill to increase protections for people with pre-existing conditions. Ms. Eshoo, the chairwoman of the Energy and Commerce subcommittee on health, said she would hold a hearing on it next week.The bill would overturn a Trump administration rule that has allowed the proliferation of short-term health insurance policies. The policies are allowed to deny coverage or charge higher premiums to people with pre-existing conditions. And they often omit coverage of prescription drugs, mental health care and other benefits guaranteed as essential by the Affordable Care Act.“A pre-existing condition shouldn’t be some kind of scarlet letter Americans have to wear around their neck as they try to get the quality, affordable health care everyone deserves,” Ms. Underwood said.Ms. Underwood, a nurse, has a pre-existing condition that occasionally prevents her heart from maintaining a normal rhythm. “So this is personal,” she said. “No insurer should ever have the option to discriminate against us.”For their part, Republicans said they, too, supported protections for people with pre-existing conditions and wanted to work with Democrats on the issue. But Republican proposals in the past have sometimes offered less protection than the Affordable Care Act provides. They would, for example, have prevented insurers from raising premiums for people with pre-existing conditions — but only if consumers maintained “continuous coverage” without a significant interruption.A lapse in coverage could have allowed insurers to significantly raise premiums for the sick.Republicans searched for divisions between Democrats hoping to shore up the Affordable Care Act and more progressive members pushing for a single, government-run insurance system. They taunted Democrats by demanding a public hearing on Democratic proposals for a single-payer health care system, known increasingly as Medicare for all.“The American people should hear how House Democrats expect to address the massive costs associated with Medicare for all,” said Representative Greg Walden of Oregon, the senior Republican on the Energy and Commerce Committee. “They need to know about the $32 trillion price tag for such a plan and the tax increases necessary to pay for it.”Some Medicare-for-all proposals could end employer-sponsored health plans that now cover more than 150 million people, Mr. Walden said.One-third of Senate Democrats and more than half of House Democrats have endorsed proposals to open Medicare to all Americans, as have some of the party’s presidential candidates.Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey and the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said it was hypocritical for Republicans to seek hearings on Medicare for all, a plan they oppose as a government takeover of health care.“Who are you kidding?” Mr. Pallone asked the Republicans. “You’re saying that you want to repeal the Affordable Care Act and then you want to have a hearing on Medicare for all. The cynicism of it!”At a separate hearing, Representative Robert C. Scott of Virginia, the chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, said the ruling in the Texas case posed a serious threat to people with employer-sponsored coverage.“All Americans, whether insured through an A.C.A. marketplace or through their employer, would lose the consumer protections we all take for granted,” Mr. Scott said.Under the Affordable Care Act, employers generally cannot impose a waiting period for coverage of pre-existing conditions. The law requires employers to cover health screenings and other preventive services at no cost to employees, and it prohibits annual and lifetime limits on benefits.Representative Donna E. Shalala, Democrat of Florida and a former secretary of health and human services, said that Republicans, “despite their long assault on the Affordable Care Act, have yet to develop an alternative that would continue to safeguard more than 133 million Americans with pre-existing conditions.”California and other states that support the Affordable Care Act have appealed the decision in the Texas case by Judge Reed O’Connor of Federal District Court in Fort Worth.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

FEB. 14, 2019

Using statistical modeling, researchers found that strenuous activity — like running or vigorous cycling, tennis or squash — may actually help to prevent depression. Benefits started at about this many minutes per day:15 minutes30 minutes45 minutesAn hourTrue or false? In winter, you can get much of the vitamin D your body needs by standing in front of a sunny window.TrueFalseThis psychological trait in 6-year-old boys was the greatest predictor of diminished earnings potential three decades later: HyperactivityInattentionDefiant behaviorAggressionSouth Asians living in the United States have a particularly high rate of death from this illness, and scientists aren't sure why:Alzheimer's diseaseStomach cancerDiabetesHeart diseaseAn F.D.A. panel recommended approval of this popular club drug as a treatment for depression:GHB (liquid X)Ketamine (special K)MDMA (ecstasy, Molly)Rohypnol (roofies)This condition causes an often painful curvature of the penis. A new drug called Xiaflex may help. Depuytren's contracturePeyronie's diseasePriapismBalanitisDr. John Gunderson died this week at age 76. He is perhaps best known for helping to establish this psychiatric diagnosis, characterized by fears of abandonment, emotional volatility and suicide attempts:Bipolar 1 disorderBipolar 2 disorderAdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshTwo former sheriff’s deputies in South Carolina were charged on Friday in the deaths of two mental health patients who became trapped in a van and drowned during Hurricane Florence.The deputy who was driving the van, Stephen Flood, 66, was charged with two counts of reckless homicide and two counts of involuntary manslaughter after the authorities said he disregarded travel instructions and drove into floodwaters.The officer who accompanied him, Joshua Bishop, 29, was accused of failing to prevent Mr. Flood from driving into the flood and was charged with two counts of involuntary manslaughter.Both men posted bond and were released on Friday. If convicted, they could serve time in prison. The range of punishment for reckless homicide includes up to 10 years behind bars; for involuntary manslaughter, it is up to five years.The deputies, from the Horry County Sheriff’s Office, had been told to safely transport the patients to a mental health center in September, as Hurricane Florence drenched the Carolinas. They were not being evacuated from the floodwaters, but being moved from hospitals for further treatment.One of the patients, Nicolette Green, 43, had schizophrenia and had been committed on the recommendation of her counselor. The other, Wendy Newton, 45, had asked to be taken to a hospital because she thought she was about to have a “spell.” Both women sought out treatment, hoping to feel better, their families said.Law enforcement officers were assigned to drive them to the mental health center, as is routine under state law. As water levels rose and roads shut down, Mr. Flood and Mr. Bishop “were provided a travel route that was believed to be safe,” a probable cause affidavit said.But the deputies did not take the path recommended by their supervisors, according to the affidavit. Instead, the authorities said, they took an alternate route, passing through a barricade and driving into floodwaters on Highway 76 in Marion County in northeastern South Carolina.The van stalled out in the flooding, the affidavit said, and was swept into a guardrail.One of the deputies, Mr. Bishop, managed to escape, but Ms. Newton and Ms. Green were trapped in a cage in the back of the van. Mr. Bishop tried and failed to rescue them multiple times, according to the affidavit.He eventually managed to extract Mr. Flood, the driver, from the van, the affidavit said. But by the time emergency workers arrived by boat and found the deputies on the van’s roof, it was too dark to dive.The van, with Ms. Green and Ms. Newton inside, remained in the floodwaters overnight. Their bodies were recovered the next day.“Why would they chain her and another lady to the back of a truck?” Ms. Newton’s daughter, Allison, asked afterward. “Why didn’t they tell us she was being transported? Why were they going through floodwaters knowing how dangerous it’s been?”Mr. Flood, who had been on the force for 10 years, and Mr. Bishop, who had been on the force for six years, were fired in October.Allie Argoe, a lawyer for Mr. Flood, said in Marion County Magistrate Court on Friday that “he never had any intention to ever hurt those women.” Bert von Herrmann, who represents Mr. Bishop, called the case a “tragic accident” but said his client was a passenger who did everything he could to try to save the patients.Ms. Green’s daughter Rose, who is a senior in high school, told the court that her mother will not be here to help her shop for a prom dress or to attend her high school graduation.Ms. Green’s family members said they were haunted by her final moments, trapped in a cage as the water flooded into the van. “Nothing can fix the pain I feel,” Rose said. “Every night is just a constant lack of sleep.”“All I see is my mother,” she added, “and I hear her screams and her cries.”Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh. Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

JAN. 18, 2019

Of the following, Americans are most likely to die of a:Car crashFallOpioid overdoseGun assaultSleeping less than this many hours a night was tied to hardening of the arteries: 5 hours6 hours7 hours8 hoursThis hormone, produced during exercise, may play a role in keeping the brain sharp and possibly helping to ward off dementia:ProlactinSerotoninIrisinAdrenalineThis daily dose of vitamin D proved most effective in preventing bone loss and fractures:400 IU800 IU1,600 IUHigh doses proved no more effective than lower dosesPeople who were most opposed to G.M.O. foods tended to know:The most about themThe least about themViews on G.M.O. foods did not reflect knowledge about themTiny particles of silver coated with anti-seizure drugs may be adapted to treat infections caused by brain-eating amoeba, scientifically known as: Clostridium difficileBacteroides fragilisNaegleria fowleriMethicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureusNew York is having its worst outbreak in decades of this once common childhood illness, with most cases in the ultra-Orthodox Jewish community:MeaslesMumpsAdvertisementSupported byBy Denise GradyDespite a worsening Ebola epidemic in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the World Health Organization on Friday again decided not to declare the outbreak a global health emergency.While expressing “deep concern” about the number of increasing cases in parts of Congo, and the potential risk of the disease spreading to neighboring countries, the W.H.O. said the epidemic did not meet the criteria for declaring an international public health emergency.This is the second time since the outbreak began last year that the W.H.O. has declined to issue such a declaration. The first was in October. Some researchers have urged the organization to do so for months; such pronouncements are reserved for epidemics that pose a serious threat to public health and could spread internationally. A global health emergency, they argue, would bring more money and international help to stamp out the disease.The epidemic does not meet the global emergency criteria because it has remained limited to two northeastern provinces and has not reached other countries, the W.H.O. said, even though the affected areas share borders with Rwanda, South Sudan and Uganda.Now in its eighth month, the outbreak has sickened 1,206 people and killed 764 as of Wednesday, the W.H.O. reports. The affected provinces, North Kivu and Ituri, are a conflict zone, rife with armed militias. There have been multiple attacks on treatment centers by unknown assailants.Case counts have jumped recently, with 20 new cases on Wednesday, the highest number in any one day since the outbreak began in August, according to the International Rescue Committee.“The situation is bad and it’s getting worse,” said Tariq Roland Riebl, the emergency response director for the I.R.C.Reported cases in the Democratic Republic of Congo, as of April 9.Confirmed casesProbable casesConfirmed casesProbable casesBy The New York Times | Source: World Health OrganizationResponding to the W.H.O. decision, Doctors Without Borders, which has been working in the region, issued a statement saying, “More than eight months into the outbreak, the situation is alarming. The number of new reported cases has significantly increased over the past few weeks, reaching its highest levels since the declaration of the epidemic. Last week, 40 percent of the newly reported cases are people who died in the community before they could be identified as Ebola patients and offered care.”During a news briefing about the decision, Dr. Michael J. Ryan, deputy director of W.H.O.’s health emergency program, said that the recent increase in cases actually reflected a positive development: By earning the trust of some communities, medical teams have gained access to areas they had been unable to enter before, and are finding more patients.Fear and distrust of the government run deep in the region, and extend to the Ministry of Health and organizations thought to be associated with it, including aid groups and the W.H.O. Suspicion has led some people to avoid testing and treatment altogether, or to postpone it until they are too sick to be saved.A particular concern is that many deaths have occurred in the community, rather than in treatment centers. Keeping the sick at home helps spread the virus, because the disease becomes more contagious as it progresses. It is spread by bodily fluids, so caregivers who lack protective gear are almost certain to become infected, as are those who prepare corpses for burial.Some of the anger and distrust stem from the way aid groups have operated, said Dr. Natalie Roberts, the emergency operations director for Doctors Without Borders. She said people in the communities did not understand why those with potential Ebola symptoms like fever, even children, would be isolated for up to 48 hours while waiting for test results, and why those who tested negative might be released without a diagnosis or treatment for their fever, which might well be malaria.Dr. Roberts said the group was changing the way it deals with patients, letting them wait at home for test results, and making sure to address their other health concerns and provide needed information. Her organization is also trying to give patients choices, and allow them to be treated in local health centers rather than Ebola treatment centers if that is their preference.Other groups are also changing their approaches to bring them more into line with what communities need, Dr. Ryan said, though he added, “We evolve the response, we don’t change it.”An emergency declaration could be unfairly interpreted as criticism and a move to take control away from Congo’s Ministry of Health, which has been taking the lead in the Ebola response, Dr. Roberts said. “It would be a bit of a blow to the ministry.”SUDANCHADBENINNIGERIAETHIOPIATOGOSOUTHSUDANEbola R.200 milesUGANDACurrentoutbreakKENYAGABONDEM. REP.OF CONGOCONGOREP.TANZANIAMALAWIANGOLAForested areasZAMBIAAreas at risk ofEbola outbreaksSUDANCHADSOUTHSUDANEbola R.CurrentoutbreakGABONDEM. REP.OF CONGOCONGOREP.ANGOLAForested areasZAMBIAAreas at risk ofEbola outbreaks200 milesBy The New York Times | Sources: World Health Organization; David M. Pigott et al., eLife SciencesDr. Robert Steffen, from the University of Zurich, chairman of W.H.O.’s emergency committee, said, “We are moderately optimistic that this outbreak can be brought into control, not immediately, but still in a foreseeable time.”Earlier declarations for a “public health emergency of international concern,” the official title, were issued for swine flu in 2009, polio in 2014, Ebola in West Africa in 2014 and Zika virus in 2016.Experts from Johns Hopkins University called for a declaration back in November, in an article in The New England Journal of Medicine, saying that the move “would increase both political attention and the financial resources flowing to the control effort.”In an interview before Friday’s decision, an author of the journal article, Jennifer B. Nuzzo of the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security, said: “I think it’s absolutely essential that they do declare it now. They need to make clear for countries the urgency of the situation and to increase pressure on W.H.O. member states to do more to bring this outbreak under control.”Later, Dr. Nuzzo called the W.H.O.’s decision “unfathomable.” She said using the lack of international spread as a rationale for not declaring an emergency made little sense, because the goal should be to prevent spread.“All the data shows that efforts to contain it have not worked,” she said. “You can’t conclude that international spread is not a possibility. Why would we wait for international spread?”Dr. Nuzzo said there is sometimes hesitation about declaring emergencies, out of concern that the declarations will prompt other nations to impose needless bans on travel or trade that would further stigmatize countries with outbreaks and batter their economies. But she said that there were ways to discourage such bans, and that an emergency declaration should be made strictly on the basis of health concerns, not politics.The outbreak is the second largest ever. The deadliest Ebola epidemic occurred from 2014 to 2016, in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone; it sickened 28,610 people and killed 11,308. The W.H.O. faced sharp criticism for its slow response in the early phases of that outbreak..Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MARCH 8, 2019

For only the second time, a patient appears to have been cured of this infection:RabiesH.I.V. EbolaMarburg virusThis week the Food and Drug Administration approved a form of the popular party drug ketamine for treatment-resistant depression; the drug is administered via:Intravenous injectionIntramuscular injectionNasal sprayPillPeople who tended to eat a Mediterranean-style diet, rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains, in their 20s scored higher on these tests in their 50s:EyesightHearingMental sharpnessAll of the aboveAlex Trebek, the host of "Jeopardy!," was diagnosed with advanced pancreatic cancer. Which statement about pancreatic cancer is not true?Pancreatic cancer accounts for only about 3 percent of all cancers but causes 7 percent of all cancer deaths. There are no effective screening tests to detect the cancer early.Pancreatic cancer typically causes no symptoms until the cancer is advanced.The cancer can be surgically removed only in about half of all patients.Deaths in the United States reached a record high for all of the following causes except:AlcoholDrugsSuicideTraffic accidentsExposure to secondhand smoke is tied to an increased risk of this illness:Lung cancerCardiovascular diseaseKidney diseaseAll of the aboveThe average age of menopause is:4951AdvertisementSupported byBy Reed AbelsonCompanies have long embraced workplace wellness programs as a way to improve workers’ health and reduce overall medical spending, but a new study may prompt employers to rethink those efforts.The study, published on Tuesday in JAMA, a medical journal, looked at the experience of 33,000 workers at BJ’s Wholesale Club, a retailer, over a year and a half.While workers who enrolled in the wellness program reported that they learned to exercise more and watch their weight, the research found no significant differences in outcomes like lower blood pressure or sugar levels and other health measures. And it found no significant reduction in workers’ health care costs.“These findings may temper expectations about the financial return on investment that wellness programs can deliver in the short term,” conclude the study’s authors, Dr. Zirui Song, a health policy researcher at Harvard Medical School, and Katherine Baicker, dean of the University of Chicago Harris School of Public Policy.Most employers — 82 percent of companies with more than 200 workers — offer some sort of wellness program like smoking cessation or weight management, according to the latest survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation. Companies often encourage participation in these programs by dangling some sort of financial carrot, ranging from a gift card if you track your steps to a significant discount off what you pay toward your health insurance.“Wellness is this multibillion-dollar industry where there has been a really weak evidence base of what these programs do,” Dr. Baicker said.Some programs have prompted concerns over employees’ privacy and the use of health data by third parties, like vendors selling these workplace plans. Lawsuits have been filed that forced employers to retreat from offering incentives for reaching specific goals.Nearly all the studies to date had been observational and have largely concluded that the programs save some money for employers. But this study randomly assigned employees to a wellness program and compared their results with those of employees who were not enrolled in such efforts.Employers looking for a quick reduction in their health care spending will be disappointed, Dr. Baicker said.But there were some encouraging notes among those who adopted healthier behaviors. “We’ve seen that necessary first step,” she said. And those alterations could later lead to better overall health and lower medical expenses.“It is not the final verdict on workplace wellness programs,” Dr. Song cautioned, calling the research “still a young field.” The authors are now analyzing three years of data from the wellness program to see if there are any longer-term effects.BJ’s Wholesale Club referred all questions to the researchers.There has been a shift in emphasis in what companies offer, including addressing broader issues like emotional well-being, said Brian Marcotte, the chief executive of the National Business Group on Health, which represents large employers that offer insurance coverage to their workers.More recent programs provide a variety of techniques aimed at reducing stress or helping employees better manage their finances, tools that are aimed at increasing workers’ productivity, he said.In a departure from previous wellness program policies, employers are now less likely to dictate what their work force should do in favor of offering workers a range of programs aimed at addressing their individual needs. “It’s really hard to engage someone on their physical health” if the person is depressed or struggling with debt, Mr. Marcotte said.But wellness has also raised concerns that employers are pressuring workers to participate in these programs and that the private health data being gathered could be inappropriately shared with employers.AARP, the consumer advocacy group for older Americans, sued the federal government in 2016, arguing that the rules governing the programs violated anti-discrimination laws aimed at protecting workers’ medical information. The group won its lawsuit, and the government has not yet issued new rules that would govern these programs.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

JAN. 11, 2019

People who lived in cluttered homes, particularly women, tended to have high levels of this hormone, a sign of stress:EstrogenProgesteroneCortisolThyroxineA large review of studies found that regular use of artificial sweeteners was tied to an increased risk of:Heart diseaseCancerKidney problemsThe review found no evidence of harmPeople who were told they carried a gene variant that curbed their appetites tended to respond to food in this way, even if they didn't carry the gene:They felt more full after eatingThey felt less full after eatingKnowing your DNA status did not affect appetiteAbout what percentage of teenagers are affected to some degree by acne?25 percent45 percent65 percent85 percentThis treatment, which freezes facial muscles, proved superior to placebo in warding off migraine headaches:AcupunctureAcupressureBotox injectionsProgressive muscle relaxationThis condition typically arises when a piece of hard stool becomes lodged in an outpouching in the intestinal wall:Inflammatory bowel diseaseDiverticulitisGastroenteritisVolvulusThis virus is even more harmful to the developing fetus than the Zika virus:CoronavirusInfluenza virusAdvertisementSupported byBy James WagnerWhen C.C. Sabathia climbs the mound at Yankee Stadium on Saturday, it will mark the first start of his 19th and final season in the major leagues.This year will be the capstone of a long road from his hometown, Vallejo, Calif. — and one that took an unexpected detour just months ago. During an off-season in which he was recovering from a planned operation on his right knee, Sabathia, 38, was suddenly faced with a more serious health scare: a nearly entirely blocked artery near his heart that required surgery to insert a stent.Professional baseball players rarely have to wrestle with their mortality — even with the occasional injury, they are at the top level of their sport because of peak physical performance. So for Sabathia, the final off-season of his career — one that has included 246 wins, 2,986 strikeouts, six All-Star appearances, a Cy Young Award and a World Series ring — was now laden with considerations about the importance of family and taking care of his body.“As a friend, it was a scary moment,” Yankees reliever Dellin Betances said of Sabathia’s heart issue. “I was praying for him throughout that process. Obviously, at that point, you just want him to be good. And thank God, he is.”Betances was with Sabathia when his heart problem first surfaced in early December. Betances, a Brooklyn native, and Sabathia, who lives in Alpine, N.J., with his wife and four children, are off-season throwing partners. One morning, Betances and Sabathia met at the workout facility where they train, Impact Zone in Norwood, N.J. After playing catch, Betances said Sabathia did not look like himself. “He just got tired a lot faster,” Betances said.Betances didn’t think much of it, however, knowing that Sabathia had been busy the previous few weeks. But later in his workout that day, Sabathia also found himself sweating more than usual after riding a stationary bicycle.“I was just trying to get through that workout, and couldn’t get through it,” he said, adding that he had been feeling a bit off for weeks.“I just didn’t feel right,” he said. “I know myself. I try to listen to my body.”So Sabathia called Dr. Paul Lee, the Yankees’ head internist at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, hoping to rule out any heart issues. He underwent a stress test.During his drive home to New Jersey from the hospital, Sabathia received a call: He needed to come back to the hospital. Recounting the visit during a January episode of his podcast R2C2, Sabathia said he was scared upon learning of a 90 percent blockage found in the widowmaker artery, an ominous nickname for the left anterior descending artery, a critical blood vessel leading into the heart.Doctors performed an angioplasty on Dec. 11, inserting a stent into Sabathia’s artery to allow the passage of blood to his heart. Sabathia returned quickly to his normal day-to-day activities at home, which he said helped ease his concerns following a jarring experience.“That was good in the sense of trying to wrap my mind around what just happened with my family,” he said.Sabathia admitted on his podcast that he could not think about baseball in the first few days after the angioplasty. Instead, he thought about Chris Bosh, the Miami Heat star who was forced into early retirement because of repeated blood clots.According to Dr. Pedro Moreno, a cardiologist at Mount Sinai St. Luke’s who was not involved in Sabathia’s treatment, there was little reason for Sabathia to be concerned about pitching after having the stent inserted — a procedure performed on hundreds of thousands of patients in the U.S. every year.“I’ve been performing angioplasties and stents for the past 25 years,” said Dr. Moreno said, “So I can tell you that an athlete that goes through an angioplasty — a single vessel angioplasty, uncomplicated with no heart attack and normal ventricular function — could easily go back to his work as an athlete at the right time with the proper recovery.”Sabathia’s own manager, Aaron Boone, a former infielder, returned from open-heart surgery in 2009 to play the 10 final games of his career with the Houston Astros. Doug Brocail, a former relief pitcher, recovered from two angioplasties to play four more major league seasons. Jeff Green, a basketball player, is on his seventh season since his open-heart surgery.The Yankees have taken precautions with Sabathia. General Manager Brian Cashman said during spring training that Sabathia had received extensive medical tests and hurdles to clear, including follow-up stress tests, in order to return to play.That does not mean Sabathia is free of all heart worries in the future. His family has a history of heart issues: His cousin, Demetrius Davis, died of heart disease in 2012 at 45. Sabathia said doctors told him this winter that history highly increased his own odds of heart trouble. That he had this surgery in his 30s, Dr. Moreno said, raises questions about premature heart disease and other contributing factors such as cholesterol levels, stress and weight.Sabathia weighed more than 300 pounds for most of his career and, even though he had already resolved to lose weight by then, the loss of his cousin opened his eyes. So Sabathia shed nearly 25 pounds off his 6-feet-6-inch frame. But that led to a drop in velocity and two of his worst seasons, in 2013 and 2014, a drop-off Sabathia attributed in part to the fact that he had drastically dropped so much weight.Sabathia eventually returned to 300 pounds with better eating, incorporated a cut fastball into his repertoire as his velocity diminished, and evolved into a serviceable back-of-the-rotation pitcher. He had a 3.65 E.R.A. over 153 innings last season and re-signed for $8 million in November with the Yankees, the only team he wanted to return to.After he is done playing, Sabathia said, he plans to lose more weight. For now, he said doctors told him to keep watching his diet, which changed several years ago anyway, and continue avoiding alcohol. (Sabathia skipped the 2015 playoffs to enter an alcohol rehabilitation clinic.)“They told me whatever I was doing was on the right track,” said Sabathia, who reported to spring training five pounds lighter than his listed weight of 300 from last season. “It’s not much change I need to make.”As he built up from an off-season slowed by two operations, Sabathia said in spring training that he had no concerns about his heart’s ability to handle the strain of pitching. He also said then that he was using blood thinners “for a little while” under doctor’s supervision. He made his final rehabilitation start on Sundayin Tampa for a Yankees’ minor league team, his five-game suspension stemming from an episode in which he threw at a batter last fall out of the way.“I feel good doing everything: playing catch, running, doing all my stuff,” he said during spring training. “So I’m excited.”Even before his heart scare, Sabathia had already decided to retire at the end of this season. He had been thinking about it since last season, he said, because of the condition of his brace-supported right knee and his desire to spend more time with his children. The stent surgery reminded Sabathia about the importance of family and health. He wants to still have a good quality of life beyond this season to enjoy the time with his children — “and my grandkids,” he said.An earlier version of this article misstated the year in which Aaron Boone had open-heart surgery. It was in 2009, not 2003.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLisa Love hasn't seen her doctor of 25 years since she discovered telemedicine.Love tried virtual visits last summer for help with a skin irritation and returned for another minor problem. She doesn't feel a pressing need to seek care the old-fashioned way, especially since she also gets free health screenings at work.No more waiting for the doctor's office to open. Convenience rules in health care now, where patients can use technology or growing options like walk-in clinics and urgent care centers to get help whenever they need it.A survey last year found that about a quarter of U.S. adults don't have a regular doctor. Some like Love wonder how much they still need one."Telemedicine probably can't do everything ... but for most of the things I might ever have, I'm pretty sure they can take care of it," the Twin Falls, Idaho, resident said.Health care experts say the changing, fragmented nature of care is precisely why people still need someone who looks out for their overall health, which is the traditional role of primary care physicians like family doctors and internists.They know patients' medical histories, and they're trained to spot problems that may be developing instead of just addressing symptoms that prompted the patient's visit. They also can make sure medications don't conflict with regular prescriptions, and they can help make sense of the information patients dig up with a Google search.But the nature of primary care is changing as patients branch off to drugstore clinics and urgent care centers. Practices are slowly shifting to more of a team-based approach that focuses on keeping patients healthy and reserves visits with a doctor for the more serious cases."The idea that the primary care physician is the one-size-fits-all solution ... that's going to change pretty dramatically," said Sam Glick, an executive with the research firm Oliver Wyman.This evolution began years ago when drugstores started providing flu shots and opening clinics that handle minor issues like ear infections or pink eye. The two largest chains, CVS Health and Walgreens, now run about 1,500 clinics combined.More recently, employers have started adding worksite clinics, and thousands of urgent care centers have opened around the country to treat emergencies that aren't life-threatening. Then there's telemedicine, which patients can use to connect to a doctor in minutes without leaving their home or office.Love said she's hooked on virtual visits. They only cost $42, or less than half the price of an office visit under her insurance plan."I like technology and I like new things and I like saving money," Love said. "It was worth it to me to try it."About 25% of adults don't have a regular doctor, the nonprofit Kaiser Family Foundation found last year. That jumps to 45% for those under age 30.On top of all the competition for patients, the field also is fighting a shortage of doctors as medical school students opt for higher-paying specialties.Primary care practices have adjusted by adding physician assistants or nurse practitioners to handle annual physicals and other routine care.They're also creating teams that help them take a broader look at patient health. Those teams might include mental health specialists who screen for depression and health coaches who can improve diet and exercise.The idea is to keep patients healthy instead of waiting to treat them after they become sick."We want to do as much outside the walls of the clinic as we can," said Stanford University's Dr. Megan Mahoney, noting that this push depends on insurers expanding what they will cover.Doctors also are continuing to focus more on coordinating care for people with complex health needs.Bryant Campbell's care team includes a primary care doctor, a pharmacist and specialists to help manage his chronic liver condition and rheumatoid arthritis. The Portland, Oregon, man said his team members talk frequently to avoid problems like duplicate tests, and their approach gives him more confidence."I sometimes think as patients we feel isolated in our health care, and this team-based approach helps a patient be as involved as you need or want to be," he said.Doctors say the expanded scope of their practices is changing how they interact with patients. Dr. Russell Phillips frequently responds to email or cellphone questions from his patients. He also refers them to clinics for minor issues like urinary tract infections.The Harvard Medical School professor says primary care is evolving into more of a flowing, virtual relationship where patients have more frequent but briefer contact with their doctor's office instead of just office visits maybe twice a year."Getting medical care is such a complex activity that people really need somebody who can advise, guide and coordinate for them," Phillips said. "People still really want a relationship with someone who can do that."___Follow Tom Murphy on Twitter: @thpmurphyAdvertisementSupported byThe lack of transparency puts patients at risk, some say. Institutions say disclosure could scare some people away from seeking needed medical care.By Andrew Jacobs and Matt RichtelIn January, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention sent out an urgent public alert about a deadly bacteria, resistant to virtually every known antibiotic, that sickened more than a dozen Americans who had elective surgery at Grand View Hospital in Tijuana, Mexico.But when similar outbreaks take place at hospitals on American soil, the C.D.C. makes no such public announcement. That is because under its agreement with states, the C.D.C. is barred from publicly identifying hospitals that are battling to contain the spread of dangerous pathogens.The rise of a deadly drug-resistant fungus called Candida auris, a focus of a New York Times report last weekend, has raised fresh questions about the secrecy enveloping infectious outbreaks at American medical institutions.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Patient advocates say hospitals and health authorities are often slow to alert the public about drug-resistant germs, potentially endangering patients.“They might not get up and go to another hospital, but patients and their families have the right to know when they are at a hospital where an outbreak is occurring,” said Lisa McGiffert of the Patient Safety Action Network. “That said, if you’re going to have hip replacement surgery, you may choose to go elsewhere.”Kevin Kavanagh, board chairman of the advocacy group Health Watch USA, contrasted the C.D.C.’s handling of the infections in Tijuana with a 2016 outbreak of a different drug-resistant pathogen, known as carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae, or CRE, at a rural hospital in Kentucky. It was not until early 2018 that the C.D.C. issued a report on that outbreak — and even then, the agency did not name the hospital where it occurred.CRE sometimes kills up to half of people infected. No deaths were reported in the Kentucky outbreak, but at least two dozen patients at the hospital were colonized with the bug, meaning they were not sick but could have spread it to others.The report identified a cleaning cart as a possible source for the spread of the pathogen, which had traveled between the hospital’s emergency room and its surgical ward.The C.D.C. declined to comment, but in the past officials have said their approach to confidentiality is necessary to encourage the cooperation of hospitals and nursing homes, which might otherwise seek to conceal infectious outbreaks. Those pushing for increased transparency say they are up against powerful medical institutions eager to protect their reputations, as well as state health officials who also shield hospitals from public scrutiny. In California, State Senator Jerry Hill, a Democrat and longtime advocate for tougher restrictions on antibiotic use, found himself stymied in his effort to improve the industry’s reporting on drug-resistant infections. A bill he introduced in the State Legislature would have required hospitals to regularly disclose resistant infections and deaths. In 2017 the Senate passed the bill, 40 to 0, but it had powerful opponents, including the California Hospital Association, the Infectious Disease Association of California and the state’s Department of Health. The bill then moved to the Assembly, where last year it stalled for lack of support. Federal legislation that seeks to combat antibiotic resistance through stronger surveillance and better data collection has also stalled. The bill, introduced by Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, has yet to emerge from a Senate health committee. “We’ve ignored this looming crisis by doing nothing,” Senator Brown said. Hospital administrators and public health officials say the emphasis on greater transparency is misguided. Dr. Tina Tan, the top epidemiologist at the New Jersey Department of Health, said that alerting the public about hospitals where cases of Candida auris have been reported would not be useful because most people were at low risk for exposure and public disclosure could scare people away from seeking medical care.“That could pose greater health risks than that of the organism itself,” she said.Nancy Foster, the vice president for quality and patient safety at the American Hospital Association, agreed, saying that publicly identifying health care facilities as the source of an infectious outbreak was an imperfect science. “That’s a lot of information to throw at people,” she said, “and many hospitals are big places so if an outbreak occurs in a small unit, a patient coming to an ambulatory surgical center might not be at risk.”Still, hospitals and local health officials sometimes hide outbreaks even when disclosure could save lives. Between 2012 and 2014, more than three dozen people at a Seattle hospital were infected with a drug-resistant organism they got from a contaminated medical scope. Eighteen of them died, but the hospital, Virginia Mason Medical Center, did not disclose the outbreak, saying at the time that it did not see the need to do so. Art Caplan, a bioethicist at the NYU School of Medicine, said the issue of full disclosure can be tricky, especially when large hospitals that see huge numbers of seriously ill patients are compared with smaller institutions. “If you’re a hospital of last resort, you’re going to see repeat customers with tough infections, many of them drug resistant,” he said. Still, he thought there was a greater value in promoting transparency. Public awareness about the lives lost to drug resistant infections, he said, could pressure hospitals to change the way they deal with infection control. “Who’s speaking up for the baby that got the flu from a hospital worker or for the patient who got MRSA from a bedrail?” he asked, referring to a potentially deadly bacterial infection. “The idea isn’t to embarrass or humiliate anyone, but if we don’t draw more attention to infectious disease outbreaks, nothing is going to change.”Andrew Jacobs is a reporter with the Health and Science Desk, based in New York. He previously reported from Beijing and Brazil and had stints as a Metro reporter, Styles writer and National correspondent, covering the American South.  @AndrewJacobsNYT AdvertisementSupported byBy Elisabeth MalkinThe number of new measles cases in the United States rose again this month, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said on Monday, bringing the total number to 555 in 2019. This year’s outbreak is on course to be the worst since the country eliminated measles as an endemic disease in 2000.Health authorities reported 90 additional cases as of April 11, with outbreaks in New York, Washington, California, New Jersey and Michigan, up from 78 the week before. Those cases were largely linked to travelers returning from countries seeing outbreaks of their own, including Israel, Ukraine and the Philippines.The disease then spread through populations in which large numbers of people are unvaccinated, the C.D.C. said.More than half of the cases this year were reported in New York City, where the latest number was 285. In Rockland County, to the north of the city, health authorities updated their count Monday to 186 cases.[New York City’s response to the measles outbreak is tangled in Bill de Blasio’s ties to ultra-Orthodox Jews.]The American outbreaks come as the incidence of measles is rising all over the world, according to preliminary numbers from the World Health Organization. Reported cases tripled globally in the first three months of 2019 compared with the year before, the W.H.O., a United Nations agency, said Monday.The W.H.O. said that every region of the world was experiencing outbreaks, both in poor countries with low vaccination rates such as the Democratic Republic of Congo and wealthier countries like the United States and Israel, where the agency said the disease had spread among unvaccinated communities.“This is a very unforgiving disease,” said Dr. Saad Omer, a researcher at the Emory Vaccine Center in Atlanta who studies immunization coverage and disease incidence. The illness killed close to 110,000 people worldwide in 2017, according to the W.H.O.The global spike in measles reverses a celebrated public health achievement. A worldwide effort succeeded in bringing down measles cases by nearly 80 percent from 2000 to 2016.Experts attribute the new outbreaks to several causes. Enduring poverty limits access to the vaccine in countries with threadbare public health systems. This is compounded by rumors that the vaccines are harmful, leading parents to refuse to vaccinate their children.“It’s rarely a single cause,” Dr. Omer said.The W.H.O. warned that “measles is one of the world’s most contagious diseases, with the potential to be extremely severe.”“The disease is entirely preventable through two doses of a safe and effective vaccine,” the statement added.Epidemiologists say that a vaccination level of 95 percent is needed to prevent outbreaks, but global coverage of the first dose remains at 85 percent, the W.H.O. said.In the United States, authorities said in 2000 that domestic measles had been eliminated, and the cases that have occurred since then have been traced to visitors returning from countries where outbreaks have occurred.The size and spread of the outbreaks this year do not come as a total surprise, Dr. Omer said, because vaccination refusal rates have been rising in the United States.In a study that Dr. Omer and his colleagues published in 2016, researchers warned that the risk of outbreaks would increase as the overall pool of unvaccinated children swelled.Dr. Omer compared the increase to filling a bucket with water. “A bucket is a small vessel,” he said. “If you keep adding water, it sometimes splashes.”The population is hovering close to the vaccination threshold below which outbreaks are possible.“What do you start seeing after that happens? You start seeing more frequent outbreaks and their size increases,” he said.During the last major outbreak in the United States, in 2014, there were 667 cases during the whole year.Dr. Omer said there was a possibility that endemic measles could return to the United States, “but it’s not inevitable.”School mandates are quite effective in the United States, he said, and the C.D.C., working with local health authorities, is able to play a firefighting role.But, he warned, “there is a limit to that capacity.”AdvertisementSupported byGlobal healthMandatory vaccination is rare, but it has been done — and upheld by the courts. While judges have allowed health officials to fine citizens for refusing, forced vaccinations are highly unusual.By Donald G. McNeil Jr.Faced with an expanding measles outbreak, Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York declared a public health emergency on Tuesday and ordered a program of mandatory vaccination in parts of Brooklyn.Such a health order is rare but not unheard-of in American history, medical experts said. It has occurred several times. The Supreme Court ruled more than a century ago that mandatory vaccination was legal, although the court drew a distinction between punishing citizens for refusing and actually vaccinating them by force.Nonetheless, both of those tactics have been imposed in the past 120 years — as long ago as a 1900 plague outbreak in San Francisco, and as recently as a measles outbreak in Philadelphia in 1991.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The New York vaccination order is written in a way that seems to leave open both possibilities, depending on how strictly the city chooses to enforce it. Mayor de Blasio said New Yorkers in the affected neighborhoods who refuse to let themselves or their children be vaccinated could be fined $1,000. But the order issued by the health commissioner, Dr. Oxiris Barbot, said anyone who has not been vaccinated and cannot prove they are immune to measles or produce a medical exemption “shall be vaccinated.” Below the commissioner’s signature — outside the actual text of the order — is an added warning saying failure to comply is a misdemeanor and can lead to fines or imprisonment. On Tuesday, Dr. Barbot said persistent refusals would be handled on a “case-by-case basis, and we’ll have to confer with our legal counsel.”The defining case in the field, according to Daniel A. Salmon, director of the Institute for Vaccine Safety at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, is the 1905 Supreme Court ruling in Jacobson v. Massachusetts.The court upheld the authority of states to enforce compulsory vaccination on the grounds that, when danger loomed, an individual’s freedom could be subordinated to the common good.The plaintiff, Henning Jacobson, was a Cambridge, Mass., pastor who had been vaccinated against smallpox as a child in Sweden and claimed it had caused him lifelong suffering. He also argued that vaccination was an “invasion of his liberty” under the 14th Amendment. During a smallpox outbreak, he refused to let himself or his son be vaccinated and was fined $5.Massachusetts was then one of 11 states with compulsory vaccination laws, but it did not allow vaccination by force. By a 7-to-2 vote, the court let the fine stand and said imprisonment could also have been imposed.But Justice John Harlan wrote for the majority that individuals could not be forcibly vaccinated.Yet vaccination by force was used in 1991 in Philadelphia, said Dr. Paul A. Offit, director of the Vaccine Education Center at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia.A measles outbreak that year infected over 1,400 people and killed several children. It had begun in two fundamentalist churches that rejected modern medicine and practiced faith healing. A court ordered that the children in those churches be vaccinated. Their families did not resist.“They were a peaceful lot,” Dr. Offit recalled. “Once it was the law of the city, they realized it and they were pretty placid about it.”(One church’s pastor had vaccinated her dog because the law required it, he said, yet her son died of an infection with Hib bacteria, which is prevented by a vaccine routinely given to children at two months.)City and state health commissioners often have vast powers. Most public health laws were written in the 19th century, when cities were regularly swept by waves of cholera, yellow fever and smallpox that killed thousands.In the 1892 cholera outbreak, New York City’s health commissioner, Dr. Cyrus Edson, was asked by a congressional committee what the limits of his powers were. He answered that he could even seize City Hall and turn it into a hospital.In the 1990s, when a few New Yorkers with multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis — mostly homeless men — refused to take antibiotics, they were held involuntarily in a locked ward of Bellevue Hospital and forced to take medicine until they were no longer contagious.Forced vaccination, however, is more politically sensitive than quarantines or forced treatment. Vaccines are given to healthy persons — sometimes infants — instead of to those who are sick and clearly endangering others.Smallpox vaccination was made mandatory in parts of Europe as early as 1806, but the first attempt at forced vaccination in this country occurred in San Francisco’s Chinatown in 1900. The city nearly exploded into riots, said Dr. Howard Markel, director of the University of Michigan’s Center for the History of Medicine.As he described it in his book “When Germs Travel,” the entire neighborhood was cordoned off by police on March 7, 1900, less than 24 hours after local health officials tentatively concluded that a scrap-wood dealer found dead in a basement cot in a dime-a-night boardinghouse had perished from plague.Plague was then common in China and in 1899 had reached Honolulu’s Chinatown. A “controlled burn” of a few plague-infested houses ordered by the city board of health had gotten out of control and burned down 4,000 houses, leaving thousands homeless.Anti-Chinese prejudice was rampant in California, and the Chinese were terrified that what had happened in Hawaii would be repeated.The San Francisco quarantine was lifted on March 9, in part because employers needed their workers. Health inspectors and police began searching the community for the sick, beating anyone who resisted.In May, the surgeon general in Washington telegraphed orders that federal health officials should take over response to the outbreak, cordon off Chinatown again, prevent all Chinese and Japanese people from leaving the city, disinfect all their homes — and inoculate them all with an experimental plague vaccine.(The national panic was so great that the secretary of the Treasury briefly issued orders that all Asians could be denied transport by common carrier anywhere in the country.)The vaccine had been invented just three years earlier by Waldemar Haffkine, an Orthodox Jew who had been driven out of Russia by anti-Semitism and had moved his laboratory to India.The second quarantine went on for weeks, and Chinatown faced starvation until local merchants donated food. The Chinese press reported that the Haffkine vaccine had killed some Indians and that a few Chinatown residents who accepted it had fallen ill.The Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association, a civic group, sued, and a federal district judge stopped the vaccinations, saying the order singled out Asians for no medical reason. Ultimately, the vaccination effort was dropped because the governor asked President William McKinley to step in. The local federal health official had started issuing orders so sweeping that they effectively prevented all Californians from leaving the state without his permission.Even fining people for refusing to be vaccinated has a complex history, Dr. Salmon said. In Britain, he noted, fines have sometimes been imposed repeatedly for repeated refusals.“People lost their houses and became martyrs,” he said.Also, fines create inequities because some can afford them and some cannot. “You end up punishing people based on their ability to pay,” Dr. Salmon said.There is almost always a backlash. In Britain, the Vaccination Act of 1853 galvanized the creation of an anti-vaccination movement, and in the United States, the Anti-Vaccination League of America was founded three years after Jacobson v. Massachusetts was decided.AdvertisementSupported byUnlike Obamacare, emerging plans would sweep away the private health insurance system. What would that mean for the companies’ workers, the stock market and the cost of care? By Reed Abelson and Margot Sanger-KatzAt the heart of the “Medicare for all” proposals championed by Senator Bernie Sanders and many Democrats is a revolutionary idea: Abolish private health insurance. Proponents want to sweep away our complex, confusing, profit-driven mess of a health care system and start fresh with a single government-run insurer that would cover everyone.But doing away with an entire industry would also be profoundly disruptive. The private health insurance business employs at least a half a million people, covers about 250 million Americans, and generates roughly a trillion dollars in revenues. Its companies’ stocks are a staple of the mutual funds that make up millions of Americans’ retirement savings. Such a change would shake the entire health care system, which makes up a fifth of the United States economy, as hospitals, doctors, nursing homes and pharmaceutical companies would have to adapt to a new set of rules. Most Americans would have a new insurer — the federal government — and many would find the health insurance stocks in their retirement portfolios much less valuable.“We’re talking about changing flows of money on just a huge scale,” said Paul Starr, a sociology professor at Princeton University and author of “The Social Transformation of American Medicine: The Rise of a Sovereign Profession and the Making of a Vast Industry.” “There’s no precedent in American history that compares to this,” he said. Economists have begun wrestling with basic questions about what this sort of change would mean and disagreeing over whether it would cost more or less than the country’s current health care system. No one has examined the full economic impact of such plans on jobs, wages, investors, doctors and hospitals — or the health insurance companies themselves. Such an undertaking would be difficult, given the vagueness of key parts of the proposals being discussed and the wide-ranging possible effects.There are few international analogues to the Medicare for all proposals, but Canada, which provides similar doctor and hospital benefits for its residents, probably comes closest. Even there, people buy private insurance for benefits that are not covered by the government program, like prescription drugs and dental care. Most other countries with single-payer systems allow a more expansive, competing role for private coverage. In Britain, for example, everyone is covered by a public system, but people can pay extra for insurance that gives them access to private doctors. Most countries in Europe don’t have single-payer systems, but instead allow private insurance companies to compete under extremely tight regulations.Legislators writing the bills acknowledge that people in the health insurance industry would lose their jobs. Proposals in the House and Senate would set aside large funds to help cushion the blow to displaced workers, offering them training, benefits, and income supports. The health insurance industry is now composed of a mix of for-profit and nonprofit companies of various sizes. About 155 million Americans get private health coverage through an employer, but the reach of the industry extends into publicly funded insurance programs. A third of Americans enrolled in Medicare, which insures older and disabled people, and four-fifths of those in Medicaid, which covers the poor and disabled, now get their benefits from a private insurer. Simply talk of Medicare for all makes investors jittery. Shares of the large publicly held insurance companies, including Cigna, Humana and UnitedHealth, fell when Representative Pramila Jayapal, Democrat of Washington, introduced her bill in late February, but have largely rebounded. The effective takeover of the health insurance industry in the United States would mean a huge hit to the companies’ stocks, although the companies, which have additional lines of business, would most likely survive. While the bills would give relief to insurance industry workers, they would provide no such compensation for investors. Not surprisingly, the insurance industry and many other health care industries vociferously oppose these plans and plan to spend heavily in fighting them.Many supporters of this approach see elimination of private insurance as a key feature, not a bug, meant to improve the program’s efficiency and equity by streamlining the health care system and weakening profit motives. With a single insurer covering every patient, hospitals and doctors could spend less time and money complying with differing policies, negotiating contracts, and filing forms to get paid. “It’s worth it,” said Adam Gaffney, the president of Physicians for a National Health Program, which supports single-payer health care and helped design  Ms. Jayapal’s bill. “Because we are not going to get to true universal health care without the greater efficiency of a single-payer system.”This idea — once at the edge of Democratic politics — has moved to the mainstream of the debate among the party’s numerous presidential contenders. Mr. Sanders, independent of Vermont, ran on the idea in his 2016 campaign, and now five 2020 Democratic aspirants have co-sponsored one of the two Medicare-for-all bills. Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California, and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts co-sponsored Mr. Sanders’s bill in the last Congress. Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii is a co-sponsor on this year’s House Medicare for All Act.The concept, in broad strokes, appeals to many Democratic voters. But overall support diminishes by a third or more when people are told that the plan would involve eliminating private insurance, raising taxes, or requiring waits to obtain medical care, according to surveys from the Kaiser Family Foundation.And the approach is a big departure from the Democrats’ strategy in 2010, when Congress passed the Affordable Care Act. That law expanded coverage, but did so largely using private insurance carriers. It set up marketplaces for Americans who didn’t have coverage through work to buy insurance, usually with federal subsidies, and broadened access to the Medicaid program for the poor. Obamacare was designed to build on the current system, patching its holes while minimizing disruption and avoiding the fierce opposition from industry that helped sink earlier attempts to change the health care system. But 107 Democratic House members are now co-sponsoring a Medicare for all bill written by Ms. Jayapal. Mr. Sanders, whose update of his bill is expected in the next few weeks, argues that only a single-payer approach would resolve problems he sees as inherent in private insurance. Both proposals are clear that a single, government-run insurer would replace the private sector, but they are less detailed about exactly how the government program would pay for medical care.Their plans would include nearly every doctor and hospital in the United States and provide generous benefits, including dental care and hearing aids, and would not require patients to pay any out-of-pocket cost to see a doctor. The federal government, of course, would have to cover those benefits, and would need to raise taxes to pay for them.Gerald Friedman, a labor economist at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, who was close to Mr. Sanders’s 2016 campaign, estimated then that it could reduce the nation’s health care spending by $6 trillion over a decade, while the left-leaning Urban Institute said it might increase the overall bill by nearly $7 trillion. Both Mr. Sanders and Ms. Jayapal said the switch to a government insurer would mean no loss in access to health care that private insurance provides. “There is a reason why the United States is the only major country on earth that allows private insurance companies to profit off of health care,” Mr. Sanders said in an interview. “The function of private health insurance is not to provide quality care to all, it is to make as much money as possible for the private insurance companies, working with the drug companies.”There are sharp disagreements among Democrats in Congress over whether Medicare for all or a more incremental approach is best — and presidential candidates co-sponsoring Mr. Sanders’s bill also support other, less sweeping measures. Ms. Harris, asked directly about getting rid of private health insurance during a CNN forum in January, answered, “Let’s eliminate all that. Let’s move on.” But after her comments were characterized as extreme, her campaign quickly clarified that, while she continued to endorse the Sanders plan, she would also support more incremental expansions of health coverage. During her CNN forum last week, Ms. Warren said she was open to various ways to get to universal coverage. “When we talk about Medicare for all, there are a lot of different pathways,” she said. “What we’re all looking for is the lowest cost way to make sure that everybody gets covered.”Dr. David Blumenthal, a former Obama administration official who is now chief executive of the Commonwealth Fund, a nonprofit that funds health care research, voiced concern about the prospects for the most transformative approach. “I do think it’s an uphill battle to take things away from people in the name of giving them something better,” he said.Believers in markets argue that consumer choice and competition among private health plans improve the quality of care. Others laud private industry’s relative nimbleness compared with Medicare, which can be bureaucratic and prone to political influence.“Private plans have been able to evolve and test new models more quickly,” said Caroline Pearson, a senior vice president at NORC, a research organization at the University of Chicago. “The political process slows things down.” In a Medicare-for-all world, private insurers might evolve into contractors for the big government system. They already perform various functions for Medicare, including helping the program manage paying its bills. The industry could retain that role, or take on new responsibilities. “The government would have to build out infrastructure if they were to shut down all the private insurance companies,” said Mark Bertolini, the former chief executive of Aetna, now part of CVS Health. “It’s not that simple pulling all that apart.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]An earlier version of this article misstated the state Senator Cory Booker represents. It is New Jersey, not California. It also misstated the location of Representative Tulsi Gabbard's congressional district. It is in Hawaii, not New York.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charles Ornstein and Katie ThomasThis article was reported and written in collaboration with ProPublica, a nonprofit journalism organization.Top officials at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center repeatedly violated policies on financial conflicts of interest, fostering a culture in which profits appeared to take precedence over research and patient care, according to details released on Thursday from an outside review.The findings followed months of turmoil over executives’ ties to drug and health care companies at one of the nation’s leading cancer centers. The review, conducted by the law firm Debevoise & Plimpton, was outlined at a staff meeting on Thursday morning.It concluded that officials frequently violated or skirted their own policies; that hospital leaders’ ties to companies were likely considered on an ad hoc basis rather than through rigorous vetting; and that researchers were often unaware that some senior executives had financial stakes in the outcomes of their studies.In acknowledging flaws in its oversight of conflicts of interest, the cancer center announced on Thursday an extensive overhaul of policies governing employees’ relationships with outside companies and financial arrangements — including public disclosure of doctors’ ties to corporations and limits on outside work.The review was one of several steps the nonprofit cancer center has taken in the wake of reports last year by The New York Times and ProPublica that several top executives and board members had profited from relationships with drug companies, outside research ventures or corporate board memberships. Those revelations prompted Memorial Sloan Kettering, based in New York, to hire outside firms to conduct inquiries into those relationships as well as into internal allegations of ethical lapses.The scrutiny of researchers’ stakes in start-ups has intensified at a time when venture capitalists are betting millions of dollars on the next potential cure for cancer and when expensive treatments like immunotherapy have fueled public concern over rising drug prices.The spotlight on the deals at Memorial Sloan Kettering also swayed other leading cancer centers, like Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, to reconsider their policies.Dr. Walid Gellad, director of the Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Prescribing at the University of Pittsburgh, said the changes appeared to be more comprehensive than those in place at many other health care institutions.The nonprofit institution is overhauling its procedures governing relationships and financial ties to corporations. (PDF, 9 pages, 0.14 MB)“Memorial Sloan Kettering really does seem to be taking this seriously and this document, I think, shows it,” he said, referring to the hospital’s revised policies. “Kudos to them.”At the staff meeting, Mark P. Goodman, co-chairman of the law firm’s commercial litigation group, told doctors that the review found “a number of instances of serious noncompliance with M.S.K.’s conflict-of-interest policies,” according to a recording. A spokesman for the hospital, Mike Morey, declined to provide a copy of the Debevoise firm’s findings.The conflicts and some profit-making deals — which were not specified at the meeting — did not occur through intentional misconduct, Mr. Goodman said. Rather, the review exposed inadequate oversight and a lack of established protocols for examining whether employees’ and executives’ affiliations with corporations could result in biased results that favored a company’s products.Mr. Goodman also said the review, involving interviews with 36 current and former employees and board members and an examination of 25,000 documents, did not find that the ethical shortcomings had hurt patients or compromised research. In an email, Mr. Goodman disputed the characterization of the findings as violations of rules and said the report did not conclude that top officials acted in a concerted way. In his presentation, he referred instead to “noncompliance” with hospital policies and to instances where executives appeared not to have followed existing policies.Scott Stuart, chairman of the cancer center’s Boards of Overseers and Managers, said in an emailed statement: “We took a deep and honest look at what went wrong at our own institution, examined what was occurring in the wider cancer research community, and are putting in place best practices that will not only allow us to learn from our mistakes, but will contribute to best practices for the wider research community.”The cancer center has been reeling from the series of reports by The Times and ProPublica, including that its chief medical officer, Dr. José Baselga, had failed to disclose millions of dollars in payments from drug and health care companies in dozens of articles in medical journals.Dr. Baselga resigned in September, and he also stepped down from the boards of the drug maker Bristol-Myers Squibb and Varian Medical Systems, a radiation equipment manufacturer. The British-Swedish drug maker AstraZeneca hired Dr. Baselga to run its new oncology unit this year.Additional reports detailed how other top officials at Memorial Sloan Kettering had cultivated lucrative relationships with for-profit companies, including an artificial intelligence start-up, Paige.AI, that was founded by a member of the cancer center’s executive board, the chairman of its pathology department and the head of one of its research laboratories. The hospital struck an exclusive deal with the company to license images of 25 million patient tissue slides that had been collected over decades.Another article detailed how a hospital vice president was given a nearly $1.4 million stake in a newly public company as compensation for representing Memorial Sloan Kettering on its board.In October, Memorial Sloan Kettering’s chief executive, Dr. Craig B. Thompson, resigned from the boards of Charles River Laboratories, an early-stage research company, and the drugmaker Merck.Then, in January, Memorial Sloan Kettering went a step further, barring its top executives from serving on the corporate boards of drug and health care companies. Hospital officials also instituted policy changes to limit the ways in which its top executives and leading researchers could profit from work developed at Memorial Sloan Kettering, which admits about 23,500 cancer patients each year.Mr. Goodman said at the staff meeting that the law firm had not found evidence of intentional wrongdoing — defined as “a conscious decision to engage in misconduct” — by the hospital’s leaders or board members.“Although we did not identify evidence of breaches of fiduciary duty, we did find that processes and controls for the review and management of senior executive and board-level conflicts were deficient and resulted in instances of noncompliance with M.S.K. policies,” Mr. Goodman said.Specifically, he noted, plans to manage executive conflicts of interest, a requirement at the hospital, “were not implemented because it was felt to be unnecessary or because there was a failure to realize that a management plan was needed.”Mr. Goodman also said that hospital leaders’ corporate ties were handled differently from other employees. Beginning in 2014, senior executives were no longer required to vet financial relationships with a conflict-of-interest advisory committee because the hospital felt the committee should not be asked to make decisions about executives to whom it reported. While Mr. Goodman said that rationale made sense, the general counsel’s office — tasked with overseeing the leaders’ conflicts — did not put in place formal procedures to examine potential problems.“As a result,” Mr. Goodman said, “conflicts were allowed to persist without formal firewalls in place.”Hospital leaders also did not always disclose to faculty and staff when they had relationships to companies whose research was being conducted at Memorial Sloan Kettering, Mr. Goodman said.The policy changes that Memorial Sloan Kettering announced on Thursday include the creation of a board committee to focus on overseeing conflicts, an existing hospital policy that the law firm learned had not been carried out.The hospital also said it would disclose financial interests of faculty members and researchers on its website and create a more centralized review of conflicts between employees’ work at the hospital and their outside duties.Other changes included new limits on how income is distributed from research discoveries that originate at Memorial Sloan Kettering, and regular audits to ensure the hospital is complying with its own rules. The cancer center reinforced its earlier statements that many profits from outside work should flow back to M.S.K. research.Heather H. Pierce, the senior director for science policy and regulatory counsel at the Association of American Medical Colleges, said the hospital decided to undergo a review that “was far broader than the initial concerns that were raised.” As an outside member of the task force recommending changes, Ms. Pierce noted that “there was nothing that wasn’t up for discussion.”Dr. Gellad, of the University of Pittsburgh, said the issues raised at a prominent institution like Memorial Sloan Kettering have placed others on notice. “We’ve seen what happens when these conflicts, even if they’re only perceived, they lead to problems in terms of how an institution is judged,” Dr. Gellad said. “Every institution, if they’re not, should look to see how that impacted Memorial Sloan Kettering.”Charles Ornstein is a deputy managing editor at ProPublica.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

JAN. 25, 2019

Many people have been told they are allergic to penicillin. But experts estimate that this percentage of people who say they are allergic to penicillin are not actually allergic: 25 percent50 percent75 percent95 percentClimbing stairs for this short a period of time, done several times a day, resulted in measurable improvements in fitness levels:20 secondsOne minuteTwo minutesSeven minutesOlder women who ate this food at least once a week were at increased risk of developing heart disease and dying early:Sugary sodasSteakFried chicken or fried fishIce creamRates of this sexually transmitted infection, caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum, continue to rise and pose a particular threat to pregnant women:GonorrheaSyphilisChlamydiaTrichomoniasisChildren with fatty liver disease sharply reduced levels of fat and inflammation in the liver when they avoided these foods:High-fat foodsSugary sodas and foods with added sugarsTropical fruitsNightshade vegetablesEbola was found for the first time in this animal in West Africa:BatCatMonkeyFleaThis treatment may be least effective for osteoporosis patients with painful spinal fractures:PainkillersBack bracesAdvertisementSupported byGlobal healthFollowing intensive vaccination efforts, measles cases plunged across the world. Now clusters of new infections — some linked, some not — have confounded health officials.By Donald G. McNeil Jr.The measles outbreak that led to a state of emergency in New York’s Rockland County began far away: in an annual Hasidic pilgrimage from Israel to Ukraine.It is emblematic of a series of fierce, sometimes connected measles outbreaks — in places as diverse as Indonesia, the Philippines, Madagascar and Venezuela — that have shaken global health officials, revealing persistent shortcomings in the world’s vaccination efforts and threatening to tarnish what had been a signature public health achievement. In 2001, the United Nations declared war on measles. With help from the federal government, the American Red Cross and big donors like Ted Turner and Bill and Melinda Gates, the U.N. began the Measles and Rubella Initiative and created Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.Together, they poured billions of dollars into buying vaccines and helping countries deliver it safely, which meant building refrigerated storage facilities, supplying clean needles, training vaccinators and countering other logistical obstacles common in poor countries. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Public health officials worldwide tracked the results, monitoring cases and tracking outbreaks. The news was good: Measles declined worldwide by nearly 80 percent between 2000 and 2016, with fatalities — mostly among children younger than age 5 — plummeting to about 90,000 per year from about 550,000.But two years ago, measles cases unexpectedly popped upward again, rising 30 percent in a single year. The virus re-invaded countries where it had been vanquished.The biggest factor in that increase, World Health Organization officials said, was poverty: Medical systems in many countries remain too weak to vaccinate enough children year after year to wall out the virus.To stop imported cases from spreading, about 95 percent of a country’s citizens must be immune, either through vaccination or because they had measles as children. As babies are born, new pools of potential victims are created — unless vaccination is constant.Anti-vaccine activists, false rumors and serious missteps by some vaccine companies have all contributed to the global rebound. Jet travel has fueled the spread, as it has with viruses like MERS and Zika. So have “diaspora networks,” said Dr. Heidi J. Larson, director of the Vaccine Confidence Project at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine — people connected by culture around the world who share beliefs, and sometimes pathogens.[Times reporters answered questions about the measles outbreak in Rockland County.] Israel’s measles outbreak began in March 2018, apparently in a small Orthodox community in Tzfat, in the north, said Dr. Patrick M. O’Connor, leader of the rapid disease control team at the W.H.O.’s European office, which oversees Israel.Resistance to vaccines was not the reason. Orthodox rabbis “have no issue with vaccination — it’s seen as a lifesaving good,” Dr. O’Connor said. And Israel’s chief health officer, Yaakov Litzman, is an Orthodox rabbi who grew up in Brooklyn; his ministry provides vaccines free. “But there is a mismatch between Israel’s health system and the population it’s supposed to serve,” Dr. O’Connor added. The clinics offering vaccines were often not open on convenient days or couldn’t accommodate big groups. Orthodox families may include up to a dozen children, and ensuring that all have had two measles shots on schedule can be difficult. (To comply with Israel’s health ministry schedule, a child needs nine doctor’s appointments before age 6 to be fully vaccinated against 14 diseases. Children get measles shots at ages 1 and 6.)Vaccination rates among the Orthodox in Israel were in the 80 percent range — better than in many other countries, but not enough to stop measles. Another contributing factor: Even if they are sick, children are often brought to Orthodox weddings or other gatherings.At first, the virus moved slowly through Orthodox communities in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv. Then in September, Dr. O’Connor said, a major outbreak in Ukraine supercharged Israel’s modest one — and probably led, indirectly, to outbreaks in Britain and in the United States. Ukraine is suffering through a measles outbreak that began in 2017. The country has had almost 70,000 cases — more than any other country in recent years.The infections have not been confined to a particular ethnic group. The country is at war with pro-Russian separatists on its eastern border, distrust in government is high, and rumors about vaccines are rife — one of which began when a 17-year-old died of unrelated causes after getting a shot. The Ukrainian government also rejected cheaper Indian and Korean vaccines in favor of European ones, but they cost more than the government could afford, Dr. Larson said.But the real problem appears to have begun at Rosh Hashana.Each year on the holiday, tens of thousands of Orthodox men travel to Uman, a Ukrainian city where the grave of Rabbi Nachman of Breslov, founder of one branch of Hasidism, has become a popular pilgrimage site. (The festivities have been called the “Hasidic Burning Man.”)Last year, Rosh Hashana fell in early September. Later that month, measles cases exploded in Israel, rising to a peak of 949 in October. The cause? Numerous pilgrims came back from Ukraine with the virus, experts believe. New York’s outbreak began in October; the first patient was a child in the Bensonhurst section of Brooklyn who had visited Israel. At the same time, a measles outbreak began among Orthodox Jews in London. The Israeli government responded rapidly, recruiting Orthodox Jews onto vaccine advisory groups and sending mobile clinics into their neighborhoods.“Coverage improved immensely, and the numbers are getting smaller,” Dr. O’Connor said.Orthodox Jews in Britain and the United States also have big families and may struggle to keep everyone vaccinated. But vaccine skepticism is more common in the United States than in Israel and much more common in Britain. The false rumor that measles vaccines cause autism was started in 1998 by Andrew Wakefield, a British doctor whose medical license was later revoked. Several other measles outbreaks are crisscrossing the globe. They follow similar patterns but have unique triggers and pose individual public health challenges. Many countries are having outbreaks bigger than Israel’s. Madagascar has seen 66,000 cases of measles, with more than 900 dead. India has had 63,000 cases; Pakistan, 31,000; Yemen, 12,000; Brazil, 10,000; and Venezuela, 5,700.Most of these countries have chronically low vaccination rates. But some are worsened by unique constellations of challenges.Yemen is in the middle of a civil war. Venezuela’s medical system has broken down; part of Brazil’s outbreak is in refugees from Venezuela.Madagascar is one of the world’s poorest countries. It is an island with a high birthrate, and there had been no measles outbreak since 2003, so it had a huge pool of susceptible children and teenagers. And many of those children are dangerously malnourished.In wealthy countries, measles kills about one in every 1,000 victims. But when children are malnourished, and when they cannot get hospital care for complications like pneumonia or encephalitis, measles can kill one in 10 children, sometimes even more in refugee camps, said Dr. Katrina Kretsinger, a W.H.O. medical officer.Since 2000, when the United States eliminated domestic measles, all cases here have come from overseas. In the early 2000s, most arrived from Japan, where the government had made measles shots voluntary after a locally made vaccine was blamed for cases of meningitis.In 2011, American tourists brought back 13 cases from a major outbreak in France. An outbreak in North Carolina in 2013 originated in India. Most recently, a long-lasting measles epidemic in the Philippines caused an outbreak in Amish communities in Ohio in 2014, started by a returning missionary, and the infamous 2015 “Disneyland outbreak,” which led California to tighten its vaccine laws. The Philippines has long had difficulty vaccinating its people, said Katherine O’Brien, the W.H.O.’s director of immunization.The country has a population of 100 million spread out over more than 2,000 islands. Its health care system is decentralized, inept in places and bad at tracking children’s medical records. Some islands have armed conflicts.The risks of an outbreak were compounded in 2017, when the rollout of the world’s first promising dengue vaccine backfired spectacularly. The vaccine, Dengvaxia, was withdrawn after evidence emerged that it had the same sinister drawback as the dengue virus itself: The vaccine appeared to make a second infection more deadly.Angry Filipinos rebelled against all vaccines; vaccination rates fell to 60 percent, the country’s health ministry said.Something similar happened there in the early 1990s, said Dr. Larson of the Vaccine Confidence Project.A conservative Catholic group heard that a new injectable contraceptive would include a protein used in tetanus vaccine. Misunderstanding the science, the group spread the alarm that tetanus vaccine was secretly a birth-control method.The mayor of Manila banned the vaccine, and the rumor spread through Catholic anti-abortion networks as far as East Africa and South America. Ultimately, the W.H.O. had to ask the Vatican to intervene and say the vaccine was safe.The next country in line for an epidemic that could spread to the United States, Dr. Larson predicted, is Poland.It was the lowest-ranked European Union country on her organization’s recent “vaccine confidence survey.” Respondents are asked, for example, whether they feel vaccines are safe, effective and compatible with their religious beliefs.Poland has a vocal anti-vaccine movement called “Stop Nop,” and its immunization rates have dropped steadily since 2010. And, Dr. Larson noted, Poland has many Ukrainian refugees, any one of whom could import the virus.Poles in Scotland are already echoing attitudes in their homeland, she said. AdvertisementSupported byBy Abby GoodnoughWASHINGTON — A federal judge on Wednesday threw out Medicaid work requirements in two states, a blow to Republican efforts to profoundly reshape a program that has provided free health insurance to the poorest Americans for more than 50 years.In twin rulings, Judge James E. Boasberg of the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia rejected for a second time Kentucky’s attempt to require recipients to work or volunteer as a condition of coverage and blocked a similar rule in Arkansas, which has resulted in more than 18,000 people there losing coverage since last summer.So far, the Trump administration has allowed eight states to begin requiring many of their Medicaid recipients to work, volunteer or train for a job to be eligible for benefits. Seven other states are seeking permission from the Department of Health and Human Services to impose similar rules.Seema Verma, the Trump appointee in charge of the Medicaid program, has described the goal as helping people “rise out of poverty and government dependence.”Judge Boasberg, an Obama appointee, had already ordered the department to re-evaluate the impact of Kentucky’s work requirement in a ruling last June, saying it had not adequately considered whether it “would in fact help the state furnish medical assistance to its citizens, a central objective of Medicaid.”In the first of his new decisions, he found the approval of Arkansas’s work rule by Alex M. Azar II, the health and human services secretary, was “arbitrary and capricious” for a similar reason. Mr. Azar had failed, the judge wrote, to “consider adequately” the impact of Arkansas’s plan on Medicaid coverage.“The court finds its guiding principle in Yogi Berra’s aphorism, ‘It’s déjà vu all over again,’” Judge Boasberg wrote.Arkansas officials had asked the judge to leave the work requirements in place in the event that he ordered Mr. Azar to further weigh their potential impact, saying that freezing them would cause too much disruption.The judge disagreed, writing that “the road to cure the deficiency in this case is, at best, a rocky one” and that any disruption “must be balanced against the harms that plaintiffs and persons like them will experience if the program remains in effect.”In the Kentucky case, Judge Boasberg said the state’s plan, with only minor changes since his last ruling, “has essentially the same features as it did before.” He said that Mr. Azar’s review and approval of the Kentucky program were fatally flawed because federal officials did not adequately consider “the coverage-loss consequences” of the work requirements.The rulings presented a serious setback not only for President Trump and Mr. Azar, but for Ms. Verma, who has led the call for conditioning government health coverage on work.She has insisted that Medicaid must not be “used as a vehicle to serve working age, able-bodied adults.” And she affirmed her goals Wednesday evening after the latest rulings came out.“We will continue to defend our efforts to give states greater flexibility to help low income Americans rise out of poverty,” Ms. Verma said. “We believe, as have numerous past administrations, that states are the laboratories of democracy and we will vigorously support their innovative, state-driven efforts to develop and test reforms that will advance the objectives of the Medicaid program.”Both states’ plans are aimed at hundreds of thousands of working-age adults who became newly eligible for Medicaid when the Affordable Care Act allowed states to expand it starting in 2014. Arkansas’s version requires most Medicaid recipients between the ages of 19 and 49 to spend 80 hours a month at a job or in “community engagement” activities, like volunteering or training for a job. Kentucky’s, which has not yet been rolled out because of the court case, does the same for people between 19 and 64.Both the Kentucky and Arkansas rules allowed exemptions for people deemed too sick to work, pregnant women, full-time students or primary caregivers of dependent children or disabled family members.The Trump administration had asserted that some people in Kentucky who lost Medicaid would gain commercial insurance coverage. But Judge Boasberg appeared skeptical, writing that federal officials “cited no research or evidence that this would happen.”Kentucky officials, meanwhile, had made the case that the work requirements could save money for the state and thus make its expansion of Medicaid “fiscally sustainable.” Gov. Matt Bevin, a Republican whose Democratic predecessor expanded the program, has warned repeatedly that he will end the expansion for financial reasons if the work rules don’t survive in court.But Judge Boasberg rejected the financial argument. Federal officials, he said, “made no finding” that the waiver would save any amount of money or make the program more sustainable.In seeking federal permission to introduce work requirements, Kentucky had estimated that 95,000 fewer residents would have been enrolled in Medicaid within five years, although its lawyers said many of those people would have found jobs that offered insurance. Lawyers for the plaintiffs predicted the number would be much greater, and the early results in Arkansas — thousands losing coverage for either failing to meet the 80-hours-per-month requirement or failing to correctly report their compliance — bolstered their case.Adam Meier, the secretary of Kentucky’s Cabinet for Health and Family Services, said in a statement, “Although a setback to our implementation schedule, we believe that we have an excellent record for appeal and are currently considering next steps.”He added, “The judge illogically concluded that Medicaid is all about paying for health care for as many people as possible without regard to whether this coverage actually makes people healthier. We emphatically disagree because a health care program like Medicaid, by its very nature, must take into account whether it improves people’s health.”Gov. Asa Hutchinson of Arkansas, a Republican, said that he was “disappointed” in the ruling and would discuss it further in a news conference on Thursday.The other states that have won federal approval for Medicaid work requirements are Arizona, Indiana, Michigan, New Hampshire, Ohio and Wisconsin. New Hampshire’s requirement, the next to take effect, is the subject of a third lawsuit, filed last week.An earlier version of this article misstated the surname of the Arkansas governor. He is Asa Hutchinson, not Huckabee.Robert Pear contributed reporting.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and in the Morning Briefing newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — U.S. measles cases have surged again, and are on pace to set a record for most illnesses in 25 years.Health officials on Monday said 555 measles cases have been confirmed so far this year, up from 465 as of a week ago.While 20 states have reported cases, New York has been the epicenter. Nearly two-thirds of all cases have been in New York, and 85% of the latest week's cases came from the state. Most of the New York cases have been unvaccinated people in Orthodox Jewish communities.The 2019 tally is already the most since 2014, when 667 were reported. The most before that was 963 cases in 1994.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that all children get two doses of measles vaccine, which is 97% effective.Other states reporting measles cases this year include Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Oregon, Texas and Washington. After the CDC issued its report Monday morning, Iowa officials said they too had seen a case.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reed AbelsonWe can finally put a name to the thing striking fear within the health care establishment: Haven.The secretive new venture, created by corporate titans Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase to transform health care for their employees, has gone without an official name for more than a year.It was nameless when a well known doctor was appointed last summer to run it. It was referred to only as ABC or ABJ in a recent lawsuit brought by giant health insurer UnitedHealth Group, which described whatever-it-was as a powerful potential competitor. (The venture would only say it had no current plans to compete, and a federal judge ruled against UnitedHealth.)On Wednesday, the venture, which remains tight-lipped but insists its goal is not to make money, announced it was calling itself Haven and launched a website at havenhealthcare.com with a slogan, “It’s Time for Better.”The name “reflects our goal to be a partner to individuals and families and help them get the care they need, while working with clinicians and others to make the overall system better for all,” according to the website.It also features a letter from the chief executive, Dr. Atul Gawande, a well-known surgeon who writes for The New Yorker, saying the venture will advocate for patients.Executives of Haven were not available for interviews. But in spite of its fuzzy new name and the talk of working with anyone who wants to help, Dr. Gawande underscored that the three employers are frustrated with the current system and are determined to make significant changes.“We will create new solutions and work to change systems, technologies, policy and whatever else is in the way of better health care,” he vowed. “We will be relentless.”Employees may feel reassured, but some of the major players in the health care industry are likely to remain very unsettled.AdvertisementSupported byA Conversation With...The former Act Up campaigner is now an epidemiologist — and MacArthur grantee — searching for new ways to halt epidemics.By Claudia DreifusLast fall, the MacArthur Foundation announced their annual “genius awards.” One name in particular stood out: Gregg Gonsalves, 55, an assistant professor of microbial diseases at the Yale School of Public Health.In the 1980s, Dr. Gonsalves was a leading member of the AIDS advocacy group Act Up; he went on to found or support a number of domestic and international AIDS organizations.The foundation cited his contributions in “training a new generation of researchers who, like himself, work across public health and human rights sectors, scholarly research, and activism to correct disparities in global public health.”We spoke for two hours in New York recently and then again later by telephone. Our conversations have been edited and condensed for space and clarity.Well, I’m an epidemiologist. That’s my profession. However, my work involves a fusion of disciplines — biology, policy-analysis statistics and activism. One of the things I do at Yale is co-direct the Global Health Justice Partnership, where we research public health issues.What we do there that’s slightly unusual is that we sometimes borrow techniques from the social sciences and combine them with advocacy and political organizing. Epidemiologists usually work off disease data.A few years ago, I was working with a community group in the Khayelitsha, a large township outside of Cape Town, South Africa.The women there reported a huge problem with sexual assaults. At night, in order to relieve themselves, the women would leave their houses and walk long distances to communal toilets. En route, their risk for sexual assault was high.By creating a simple mathematical model, we showed Cape Town’s leaders why installing more toilets made economic sense. In our model, we showed how less time outside meant less risk for the women. We put an economic value on the cost of more toilets and compared it to the cost of the assaults. Aside from the human rights implications, we showed how more toilets would be a money saver.Unfortunately, Cape Town did not do the right thing. But we gave them the facts.With H.I.V.-AIDS. Research shows that between 14 to 15 percent of the H.I.V.-positive people in the U.S. don’t know they are infected. Finding them is a needle-in-the-haystack problem.Now, there exist some very effective quantitative tools for locating needles in haystacks. Oil companies doing oil exploration and rescuers searching for downed airplanes use them. Though the problems aren’t analogous, you can repurpose their algorithms to locate clusters of undiagnosed H.I.V. cases.That’s important, because H.I.V. remains a problem among gay men in the U.S. and among opioid users who share needles.Frankly, because of H.I.V.-AIDS. I was a gay college dropout in the 1980s. That’s when H.I.V. was first struck in the United States. The government didn’t seem to care. It was labeled the “gay disease,” and that made it easier for the mainstream to ignore.A man I was in love with was H.I.V.-positive. I needed information about what we were up against. There wasn’t much. So I began going to meetings of the activist organization Act Up and later I helped co-found the Treatment Action Group, which pushed for research and new drugs.At both, the members — most of us nonprofessionals — read papers in virology and immunology. At the same time, we tutored ourselves on the workings of the N.I.H. and the F.D.A. On the activist side, we went to Washington and demanded action. Our work had a lot to do with the protease inhibitor drugs coming on line in 1995. They transformed AIDS into a manageable disease for those with access to health care.As with H.I.V.-AIDS, the current opioid epidemic impacts a marginalized corner of society — needle-sharing drug users.The toll has been devastating. From overdoses alone, the National Institute on Drug Abuse reports 47,600 deaths in 2017. These people had friends and relatives who loved them. They need to make their voices heard and to get policy changes.Ironically, this epidemic has an H.I.V. component. When people inject the drug and share needles, as opioid users often do, the chances for transmission of hepatitis C and H.I.V. are high.We know what to do about opioids. Dayton, Ohio, used to have one of the worst overdose rates the country. They cut it in half. How? They did it by providing naloxone to first responders, which reduced overdose fatalities. They did it by having a clean-needle program, so that drug users stopped sharing needles. They did expanding access to methadone to treat addiction.By contrast, Scott County in Southern Indiana is a place where the state authorities failed to act decisively. In 2008, public health officials began to discern the first signs of opioid abuse. By 2015, they had 215 cases of H.I.V. in Scott County.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]My colleague Forrest Crawford and I wondered if this could have been prevented. The C.D.C. had data showing when individuals in Scott County were infected and who their contacts were. Using that, we made a computer simulation where one can, essentially, run the epidemic back in time and see what might have been.Our model shows that if they just tested people for H.I.V. in 2011 and 2013, you could have blunted or possibly even avoided the epidemic altogether. Yes. In the spring of 2015. But it was too little, too late. A lot of the infections had already happened — something like 150 diagnosed infections. To stop a potential epidemic, governments need to step in early and aggressively.With epidemics, the objective should not be to fight the last battle over again, but to learn from it. The C.D.C. says that there are 220 counties currently at risk for H.I.V. outbreaks. They don’t have to become Scott County.We can prevent H.I.V. with everything we have now — we just don’t do it. One guy getting cured in London, it’s interesting scientifically. But the real lessons involve everything we’ve just discussed.I enjoyed it. I had dropped out of Tufts in the 1980s. With all that was going on, I wasn’t interested in Russian literature.When I enrolled at Yale in 2008, I wanted to gain skills to be more effective. I had worked as an organizer around AIDS issues for almost 30 years and had come to feel that activism alone wasn’t enough. I wanted to marry activism to science.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Does an older friend or relative have a hard time hanging up on telemarketers? Or get excited about a "You've won a prize" voicemail? New research suggests seniors who aren't on guard against scams also might be at risk for eventually developing Alzheimer's disease.Elder fraud is a huge problem, and Monday's study doesn't mean that people who fall prey to a con artist have some sort of dementia brewing.But scientists know that long before the memory problems of Alzheimer's become obvious, people experience more subtle changes in their thinking and judgment. Neuropsychologist Patricia Boyle of Rush University's Alzheimer's disease center wondered if one of the warning signs might be the type of judgment missteps that can leave someone susceptible to scams."When a con artist approaches an older person, they're looking for a social vulnerability — someone who is open to having a conversation with a complete stranger," said Boyle. Then the older person must interpret that stranger's intentions and emotions, with little else to go on, in deciding whether to believe what they're peddling, she explained.Boyle turned to data from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which operates a fraud "risk meter," to determine behaviors that could signal scam vulnerability — things such as answering the phone when you don't recognize the number, listening to telemarketers, finding it difficult to end unsolicited calls, being open to potentially risky investments and not realizing that seniors often face financial exploitation.Boyle studied 935 seniors, mostly in their 70s and 80s, with no known brain problems who were enrolled in a long-running memory and aging project in Chicago. They took a scam awareness questionnaire and then took yearly brain tests for an average of six years.During the study, 151 seniors were diagnosed with Alzheimer's and another 255 with mild cognitive impairment, sometimes a precursor for Alzheimer's. The participants who'd had what Boyle calls low scam awareness at the study's start were more likely to have developed each of those conditions than seniors who were more aware of scam vulnerability.For a closer look, the 264 participants who died during the study underwent brain autopsies. Sure enough, the lower the scam awareness at the study's start, the more people had a buildup of sticky plaque in their brains that is a hallmark of Alzheimer's, Boyle reported in Annals of Internal Medicine.The study can't prove a link between low scam awareness and impending decline in thinking and memory, cautioned Dr. Jason Karlawish of the University of Pennsylvania in an accompanying editorial.Karlawish described one of his own patients who confessed to a grandson, "I think I've been had" by a lottery scam that persuaded him to pay taxes up-front so he could receive his purported winnings. It was just too hard to hang up on the polite caller. Three years later, that patient shows no sign of cognitive impairment, said Karlawish, who said he's flummoxed by how the clever crooks managed to rob the man.Still, the study results "should be a call to action to health care systems, the financial services industry and their regulators," Karlawish wrote, urging further research into what he called "notable findings."The possible scam link isn't surprising, agreed Alzheimer's Association vice president Beth Kallmyer, who also said it needs more research. In fact, she said seniors may be reluctant to report fraud for fear family members might suspect they were sucked in because of health problems.Dementia concerns or not, she advises seniors simply to not answer unsolicited calls or emails from people they don't recognize, making it harder for them to be targeted.Previous research has suggested that seniors can begin to have trouble managing their finances even with aging's normal cognitive slowing.And the rise in elder fraud has reached such a level that investment firms now are supposed to ask customers for the contact information of a "trusted person" they can alert if they suspect a case of financial exploitation. Just last week, federal agents broke up a Medicare scam that sold unneeded orthopedic braces to hundreds of thousands of seniors. And every tax season the government warns people not to fall for phone calls from IRS impostors — that agency won't call for payment."As older people start making mistakes in financial, health care and other types of complex decisions, we do need to raise awareness and start asking, 'Do they need some help?'" Boyle said. "It doesn't necessarily mean someone is going to go on to develop dementia. But we should become more aware."AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew JacobsTwo of the country’s leading medical groups on Monday issued a call to arms against the soda industry, urging legislators and policymakers to embrace taxes, warning labels and advertising restrictions to deter young people from consuming the sugary beverages that are increasingly linked to the nation’s crisis of obesity and chronic disease.Describing sweetened drinks as “a grave health threat to children and adolescents,” the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Heart Association issued a set of bold policy recommendations they say are necessary to stem the epidemic of Type 2 diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease and other diet-related illnesses responsible for tens of thousands of premature deaths and billions of dollars in annual health care costs.The organizations say such measures are needed if the United States is to adhere to federal dietary guidelines recommending that added sugars make up less than 10 percent of the total calories consumed by children and adolescents. The figure now stands at 17 percent, with nearly half of that coming from sugary sports drinks, carbonated sodas and fruit-flavored beverages, according to studies. The guidelines do not include sugars found naturally in 100 percent fruit juices.“Sugary drinks are empty calories and they are the low-hanging fruit in the fight against childhood obesity,” said Dr. Sheela Magge, a pediatric endocrinologist at Johns Hopkins Children’s Center who took part in crafting the recommendations.The statement, more than two years in the making, reflects the growing sense of urgency among doctors — and the frustration over what many describe as government inaction in the face of a national health emergency.“I’ve seen 2-year-olds with fatty liver disease and teenagers with Type 2 diabetes,” said Dr. Natalie Muth, a California pediatrician and a lead author of the recommendations. “These are diseases we used to see in their grandparents. It’s frustrating because as pediatricians we feel like we’re doing everything we can, but it’s hard to compete with a $800-million-a-year marketing strategy by the soda industry.”The recommendations embrace a range of initiatives, some of them untested — like federal curbs on junk food advertising — and measures like soda taxes that have been effective in reducing soda consumption.Most are likely to face resistance from the powerful beverage industry, which has fought back vigorously against any government efforts to dampen consumption of sugar-laden drinks.Still, some of the policy suggestions would be relatively easy to achieve, like increased funding for public education programs to highlight the dangers of excess sugar consumption or changes to the federal food program that serves millions of poor children. The Supplemental Nutrition Program, or SNAP, pays for 20 million servings of sugary drinks a day, at an annual cost of $4 billion. Barring recipients from using benefits to buy unhealthy beverages, researchers say, could prevent 52,000 deaths from Type 2 diabetes.Other small, symbolic steps they recommend could have an outsize impact, like encouraging health care institutions to remove sugary drinks from cafeteria menus and vending machines.“As with the ban on tobacco, leadership by hospitals and health plans to eliminate the sale of sugary drinks can improve the health of their employees, increase public awareness about the contribution of sugary drinks to obesity, and thereby change social norms,” the medical groups said.William Dermody, a spokesman for the American Beverage Association, said sugary drinks were being unfairly blamed for soaring rates of obesity and diabetes, and he said there were better ways to discourage sugar consumption among children. The industry, he noted, was focused on creating healthier products, including bottled water and low-sugar drinks, part of an industry initiative to cut by 20 percent the calorie count in beverages by 2025.“America’s beverage companies believe there’s a better way to help reduce the amount of sugar consumers get from beverages and it includes putting parents in the driver’s seat to decide what’s best for their children,” he said in a statement.But parents, especially those who work long hours, are not always around to police what their children are drinking. When it comes to teenagers, the challenge is even greater.“Parents can only do so much, especially in single-parent households,” Dr. Magge of Johns Hopkins said.Dr. Jim Krieger, executive director of Healthy Food America, said the industry could not be trusted to oversee the consumption of the unhealthy products it depends on for its profits.Take, for example, the initiative to voluntarily reduce the sugar content in beverages. Dr. Krieger said the effort was off to a slow start, with only a 3 percent reduction since the effort began in 2014.Although sugary soda consumption in the United States has dropped since 2000, recent data suggests the decline has plateaued in recent years and rates remain stubbornly high in poor communities, and especially among minority adolescents. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the obesity rate is nearly 19 percent among the poorest Americans ages 2 to 19, eight percentage points higher than those in wealthier communities.Federal studies have also shown that beverage companies spend a disproportionate share of their marketing dollars on campaigns aimed at minority youth, and researchers say such advertisements have been growing in recent years despite a voluntary, industry-wide initiative to reduce ads for unhealthy products.Many public health advocates have called for federal regulation, much like the 1971 rule that banned cigarette ads on radio and television. The medical associations acknowledged that such restrictions would face an uphill battle but suggested Congress could modify tax laws that allow beverage companies to deduct advertising costs for unhealthy food and beverages.State governments, they added, could enact rules that ban the marketing of such foods in and around schools and prohibit the makers of sugary drinks from sponsoring youth sporting events.But when it comes to curbing the zeal for sugary drinks, the medical groups say that higher taxes hold the greatest promise to change habits. From Mexico to Chile and from Philadelphia to Berkeley, Calif., the introduction of soda taxes in recent years has led to significant declines in soda consumption, with a 10 percent tax on average associated with a 7 percent drop in consumption, according to researchers.Another study found that soda taxes, if widely enacted, could prevent more than a half-million cases of childhood obesity.The medical associations’ recommendations acknowledge that soda taxes would disproportionately affect the poor but that such communities would stand to benefit if the revenue was spent to enhance early education and programs that subsidize the price of healthy food and beverages.Benjamin Winig, vice president for law and policy at ChangeLab Solutions, an advocacy group, said he hoped the new recommendations would help build the political will needed to overcome increasingly muscular pushback from beverage manufacturers.Faced with a surge of local soda taxes, the industry has been backing so-called pre-emptive legislation at the state level that prohibits municipalities from creating taxes on food and beverages. The effort has been successful in states including California, Michigan and Washington.AdvertisementSupported byReturning from a trip to the Democratic Republic of Congo, the agency chief also worried that vaccine supplies could run out. By Denise GradyThe Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo is not under control and could continue for another year, Dr. Robert R. Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said in an interview on Friday.“Let’s not underestimate this outbreak,” he said.His outlook was less optimistic than that of the director general of the World Health Organization, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, who said at a news conference on Thursday that his goal was to end the outbreak in six months.Dr. Redfield has just returned from a trip to the region that included a visit on March 9 to a treatment center in Butembo that, just hours before, had come under gunfire by attackers who killed a police officer. It was the second attack on that center. Another was attacked on Thursday.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Also on Thursday, Dr. Redfield related his observations from the region, telling a Senate subcommittee that sometime between May and mid-September, Congo could run out of an Ebola vaccine that is widely believed to have kept the epidemic from becoming even worse.More than 87,000 people have received the vaccine, which is being donated by its manufacturer, Merck. The vaccine is not yet licensed and cannot be sold. So far, Merck has donated 133,000 doses.In response to Dr. Redfield’s warning that vaccine supplies could become dangerously low, Pamela L. Eisele, a spokeswoman for Merck, said in an email that the company could not comment on the C.D.C.’s projections. She also said that Merck keeps a stockpile of 300,000 doses, which it replenishes by making more vaccine whenever doses are deployed for outbreaks.“Our commitment is to keep at least 300,000 doses,” she said.This outbreak began in August. There had been 932 cases and 587 deaths as of Wednesday, according to the World Health Organization. The epidemic is the second largest ever, after the one in West Africa from 2014 to 2016, which killed more than 11,000 people.The disease has struck two of Congo’s northeastern provinces, North Kivu and Ituri, a conflict zone where people have for decades lived in fear of armed militias, the police and soldiers. The most heavily affected areas are urban, with a surrounding population of about one million.The region is close to Rwanda, South Sudan and Uganda, and tens of thousands of people cross those borders every day. Some 20 million have gone back and forth from the outbreak zone since August, Dr. Redfield estimated, and added, “Truly, it’s nearly miraculous that we haven’t seen cross-border spread yet.”The C.D.C. has worked with the neighboring countries to set up screening stations to stop the disease from reaching them. Some travelers with suspicious symptoms have been tested, but so far none have been infected. Dr. Redfield said that experts from his agency could do more to help stop the disease, but that so far, because of violence in the area, the United States government had not permitted them to work where they are needed most, in the epicenters of the outbreak. Some were deployed in August to Beni, but were quickly relocated because of unrest in the area. C.D.C. employees are working in other parts of Congo, however, to train health workers and help coordinate the response.The State Department decides whether it is safe for government employees to work in other countries.“We’re ready to deploy as soon as they tell us it’s time,” Dr. Redfield said.He noted that health workers from the World Health Organization, Doctors Without Borders, Alima and other aid groups, had been working nonstop in the region for more than seven months. Fatigue was setting in, he said, and workers needed reinforcements, especially leaders with deep experience in this kind of outbreak.  Several red flags indicate that the outbreak is not under control, Dr. Redfield said. One is that too many people — about 40 percent — are dying at home and never going to treatment centers. There is a high risk that they have infected family members, health workers and other patients at local clinics they might have gone to for help. The disease is spread by bodily fluids and becomes highly contagious when symptoms start.Corpses are very infectious and pose a big risk to relatives who may wash, dress and prepare them for burial.To control an outbreak, at least 70 percent of patients need to be isolated and treated safely in isolation units so that they do not infect anyone else, and that percentage needs to be maintained for several months. In the epicenters in Congo now, that figure is only about 58 percent, Dr. Redfield said.Another bad sign is that too many new cases are turning up who were not known contacts of patients and were not being monitored, meaning they could have infected yet more unknown people.Also problematic is that a high percentage of patients, about 25 percent, became infected at local health centers, and about 75 health workers from those centers have also been infected. Rates that high indicate that information about the disease and how to avoid spreading it have not reached those clinics.Many patients in the current outbreak, about 30 percent, have been children, and doctors say they think some caught Ebola when they were taken to local clinics for other illnesses.In addition, the contact tracing has not always been effective. In some cases, if contacts missed a scheduled appointment to be checked for symptoms, their names were simply dropped from the list, Dr. Redfield said.He said one incentive to encourage contacts to cooperate was to offer food if they showed up. But then a decision was made locally to hand out the food at a central location, which defeated the purpose of using it as an incentive.He said local workers needed on-the-ground training in person from experts in this kind of epidemiologic work — something the C.D.C. can offer if its employees are given permission to deploy into the hot zones.Dr. Redfield also echoed a concern expressed by Dr. Joanne Liu, the president of Doctors Without Borders, that medical teams had not fully gained the trust of the affected communities. Without that connection, people will continue to avoid testing and treatment, and decline help in carrying out safe funerals and burials. “How exactly to accomplish that is going to take some time, some thought,” Dr. Redfield said. “I haven’t seen evidence to date that we have an effective partnership with the community.”AdvertisementSupported byOn BaseballBy Tyler KepnerTwenty years ago, two of the greats of the 1969 World Series found themselves on the same dais at a fund-raiser. The M.C. cued up highlights, and one Hall of Fame pitcher walked out. Another, Tom Seaver, howled with delight.“He said, ‘Jim, it was 30 years ago, get over it!’ ” Jim Palmer, the former Baltimore pitcher, said on Thursday. “And he did it with that laugh only Tom Seaver had. It was a great point — but if the Orioles had won instead of the Mets, do you think he would’ve gotten over it?”As the Mets celebrate the 50th anniversary of their miracle championship this year, Seaver, 74, will not be basking in the memories. In a statement released through the Baseball Hall of Fame on Thursday, the Seaver family announced that he has dementia and would retire from public life.[Read more: Tom Seaver, Star of the Mets’ Championship Team, Has Dementia]It was not a surprise to those who know him well. Seaver has rarely appeared in public in recent years. He did not throw a ceremonial first pitch during the first World Series at Citi Field, in 2015, and has been absent at the annual induction ceremonies in Cooperstown, N.Y. He had for years dealt with Lyme disease.“We’ll all miss him, because he was such a big part of that team,” said Art Shamsky, a Mets outfielder and first baseman in 1969. “We’ve lost about 10 guys from that team, and we’ll miss them all. It’s another kick in the gut. I just hope he’s around for many more years to share some moments with his family.”Shamsky visited Seaver two years ago at his home and vineyard in Calistoga, Calif., reconnecting for Shamsky’s coming book on the 1969 season. Seaver’s wife, Nancy, told Shamsky he had good and bad days. Their day together, Shamsky said, was wonderful.“But I knew then he was struggling a little bit, because he told all of us he wasn’t going to be making appearances,” Shamsky said. “All he really wanted to do the rest of his life was spend time with his family, stay around his home and vineyard and prune, and get it ready for harvest.”Palmer said he saw Seaver at an airport years ago; both ex-pitchers were out on assignment as broadcasters. Seaver told him he was doing it so he could save up for the postbaseball career he really wanted: running a vineyard, a pursuit Seaver found to be familiar.“Same thing as pitching — attention to detail,” he said in 2014. “You can’t force it. It’s a lot of fun.”Hard work has always seemed to suit Seaver, who extracted power from his 6-foot-1, 195-pound frame with a drop-and-drive delivery that always left a patch of dirt on his back knee. He pitched a no-hitter for the Cincinnati Reds, earned his 300th victory for the Chicago White Sox and finished his career with the Boston Red Sox. But he was a Met above all, a three-time Cy Young Award winner who brought a sense of purpose to a perennially hapless franchise.“He had a little bit of Gil Hodges in him,” Shamsky said, referring to the Mets’ revered manager. “Gil was a strict disciplinarian and a no-nonsense guy, and Tom could be a cutup, a guy you could have fun with. But he was no-nonsense in that he did not like to lose, and he was going to battle you all the way.“When we started getting the feeling of competitiveness, it was all about learning how to win close games. We were going to be close every time he pitched, and Tom gave us confidence we could win those games. His leadership in that regard rubbed off on all of us.”Seaver helped the Mets to another pennant in 1973, and he still leads the team in nearly every significant pitching category. His trade to the Reds in June 1977 — over a salary dispute with the team chairman, M. Donald Grant — scarred a generation of fans. When he returned in 1983, he made a lasting impact on a rookie right-hander, Ron Darling.“He invited me up to his home in Greenwich, and he was doing some gardening with Nancy; he loved to work in the yard,” Darling said on Thursday. “He said he was going to go take a shower before dinner, so why don’t I hang out in his study? It had all his awards, his Cy Youngs, all that kind of stuff, and I started peeking around.”Darling noticed a bureau with four drawers full of baseballs, with notes written on each one. After some wine with dinner, Darling found the courage to ask Seaver about them.“Oh, yeah,” Seaver replied, with casual cool. “Those are the shutouts.”By the end of his career, in 1986 — with the Boston team that would lose to the Mets in the World Series — Seaver had thrown 61 shutouts, tied with a 1969 teammate, Nolan Ryan, for seventh on the career list. His 3,640 strikeouts rank sixth on the career list, and his 311 victories rank 18th.Seaver was one of the best in a remarkable group of durable, Hall of Fame aces who started their pro careers in the 1960s and retired in the 1980s and 1990s: Bert Blyleven, Steve Carlton, Fergie Jenkins, Phil Niekro, Palmer, Gaylord Perry, Don Sutton and Ryan. They pushed one another, Palmer said. Seaver, he added, was the pitcher he wanted to be.“I mean, he was Tom,” Palmer said. “He was Tom Seaver. Why wouldn’t you? All of those guys set incredibly high standards, and you were always trying to match their performance. I had tremendous admiration for Tom because of his ability and the way he handled himself.”Seaver should have finished his career with the Mets; perhaps he would have gone out a winner with the 1986 team. Instead, his New York years ended ingloriously, with the Mets leaving him unprotected in the free-agent compensation draft — long since abandoned — in January 1984.The White Sox selected Seaver, and he earned his 300th victory in their oddly striped uniform in 1985. Seaver achieved the milestone in the Bronx — the wrong borough but the right city, home of the franchise he legitimized, the one that mourned his condition on Thursday but celebrated his legacy.AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackThe chief executive of the corporation that runs a private nursing home in Arizona where a woman in a vegetative state was sexually assaulted and later gave birth to a child resigned on Monday, the company said in a statement.The company, Hacienda HealthCare, said the resignation of the executive, Bill Timmons, was unanimously accepted by its board of directors. David Leibowitz, a company spokesman, said Mr. Timmons had been chief executive for 28 years. Efforts to reach Mr. Timmons on Monday night were unsuccessful.Gary Orman, the executive vice president of the company’s board, said it would “accept nothing less than a full accounting of this absolutely horrifying situation, an unprecedented case that has devastated everyone involved, from the victim and her family to Hacienda staff at every level of our organization.”Hacienda HealthCare has been under intense scrutiny since the Phoenix Police Department said last week that it had opened an investigation into the circumstances surrounding the conception of the child, who was born last month. The woman has not been publicly identified.A spokeswoman at the Arizona Department of Health Services said it was also aware of the allegations and would conduct an inspection of the Hacienda Nursing Facility. Records posted to the Medicare website indicate that the care center received a “below average” rating from health inspectors in 2017. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services rated its quality of resident care as “much below average.”“I want to assure our patients, their loved ones, our community partners, the agencies we do business with, Governor Ducey and the residents of Arizona, we will continue to cooperate with Phoenix Police and the investigating agencies at all levels in every way possible,” Mr. Orman said in the statement. “And we will do everything in our power to ensure the safety of every single one of our patients and our employees.”[Detectives in Phoenix have opened an investigation into sexual assault allegations at the nursing home.]The nursing home, which is about seven miles south of downtown Phoenix, specializes in the care of people with intellectual disabilities and has at least 74 patient beds, according to federal records. State records indicate that some patients have lived there for decades.This is not the first time that investigators have expressed concern about the facility.In 2013, the Arizona Department of Health Services found that a male employee mistreated some patients by making sexually explicit remarks about them. A state report issued at the time did not allege physical abuse at the center, and its operators said the employee in question had been fired. It said employees would be given new training on how to report the suspected abuse of patients.In 2017, state investigators cited the facility for providing inadequate privacy to patients while they were naked or being showered. A report issued at the time reminded the center that it had an obligation to its residents.“Federal and state laws guarantee certain basic rights to all residents of this facility and they include the right to a dignified existence and to be treated with dignity,” it said.AdvertisementSupported byA fundamental problem — tension between regional offices and the headquarters in Geneva — cannot be fixed by fiat. Still, staffers are set to move around the globe.By Donald G. McNeil Jr.The World Health Organization on Wednesday announced a long-awaited restructuring intended to streamline the agency — and strongly hinted that it intended to shake up some staffers’ resistance to change. The announcement, made in a lengthy and mostly cheerful speech delivered jointly by the organization’s director general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, and the directors of the agency’s six regional offices, aims to serve the W.H.O.’s new targets: to get affordable health care to the world’s poorest 1 billion people; to better protect them against epidemics; and to help them enjoy better health, including protection from noncommunicable diseases like cancer.But it was unclear how the plan, as announced, would increase efficiency. A fundamental rewrite of the W.H.O.’s charter would be needed to fix what is sometimes called the agency’s “birth defect.” Its regional officers are independently elected, and have large staffs and budgets they are reluctant to cut. Some even resist cooperating with headquarters in Geneva.That has had serious consequences. The slow response to the 2014 West African Ebola outbreak, blamed partly on tension between the Africa regional office and headquarters in Geneva under Dr. Tedros’s predecessor, Dr. Margaret Chan, allowed that outbreak to spiral out of control until it ultimately killed more than 11,000 people.Much of the reorganization plan appeared merely bureaucratic. It included creating a department of digital health strategy, making some scientists’ pay equal to that of managers, and naming a chief scientist and an assistant director general for emergency preparedness. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]New goals were set: cutting the time it takes to do a typical hire from five months to 80 days, and instructions to managers to formally evaluate their employees monthly instead of biannually.Other measures were harder to grasp. A staff “training academy” in Lyon, France, is planned, but it will have six regional hubs. A “strategic policy dialogue” meant to let headquarters communicate directly with country directors was announced, as were new “cross-cutting teams” with members from country offices, regional offices and headquarters.Asked in an interview if such changes wouldn’t add more layers to an already overburdened infrastructure, Dr. Bernhard F. Schwartländer, Dr. Tedros’s chef de cabinet, said: “It may be difficult to fully comprehend this, but we’ve rearranged the core goals so the communication flow will be more effective.”One change that was only briefly touched on in the speech could be truly disruptive to a staid agency that employs 7,000 people. It was a new “mobility program” that will be “a key criterion for career progression.” Dr. Schwartländer was more blunt, saying: “By the fourth quarter, we will start moving people around.”“Every single position will become rotational,” he added. “Some people may not like it, but there is nothing in the W.H.O. constitution that says there’s a right to stay in Geneva. People who don’t want to move may have to leave.”“Right now, the vast majority of people in the Brazzaville office are African, and those in Geneva are mostly white males with gray hair like myself,” Dr. Schwartländer said. “Diversity makes our work better.”Some experts have long advocated that the W.H.O. imitate the United Nations Fund for Children or UNICEF, which frequently rotates its staff around the world, making them more familiar with local problems and disrupting power bases.That has long been hard at W.H.O. headquarters, where bureaucrats on generous United Nations salaries resist leaving the shores of Lac Léman for regional offices in Brazzaville, Cairo or Manila, or front-line positions in dangerous countries.It took a major scandal in 2017 to get staffers to cut down on flying in business class.Dr. Tedros was elected in part to reform the W.H.O. It was also hoped that relations between Geneva and the African region, where so many outbreaks occur, would improve, because he is a former Ethiopian health minister and knows many other officials there.He has repeatedly gone to the front lines of outbreaks to show his support; he is expected to soon make his fourth trip to the Democratic Republic of Congo to make the world more aware of the Ebola crisis along its eastern border.The roots of the regional-versus-headquarters struggle go back to the post-World War II era. When the W.H.O. was founded in 1948, three power blocs struggled over the direction it would take. The European nations were broken by the war but still controlled colonies in Africa and Asia. The Soviet Union and Eastern Europe resented being left out of the Marshall Plan and blamed poor countries’ health problems on capitalistic exploitation.The United States was already leading effective disease-eradication efforts in the Western Hemisphere and felt the United Nations was under Communist influence.The Soviet bloc quit the W.H.O. from 1949 to 1955. While the United States paid much of the agency’s budget, they wanted what is now the Pan-American Health Organization, based in Washington and dominated by the United States, to be as independent from the W.H.O. as possible.Australia and New Zealand initially refused to join Asian countries as part of the Western Pacific region, and China stayed away entirely because the United Nations recognized Taiwan as the government of all China.And until 1965, the W.H.O. lacked an Africa office in Africa run by an African, because England, France, Belgium, Holland and Portugal — who had most of the world’s tropical disease specialists — had tried to keep overseeing what had been their colonial health networks from Geneva.The fractious legacy of that era is still proving divisive, but health experts and the W.H.O. are anxious to get past it. The rapid spread around the world of lethal diseases like Ebola, SARS, bird flu and cholera has made it abundantly clear that responses to epidemics must be global, not merely national or regional.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere is very little science behind most of the health claims made for CBD, the cannabis product turning up in cosmetics, foods and dietary supplements.With mainstream retailers Walgreens and CVS offering CBD skin products, it's easy to believe there must be something special about the trendy ingredient. But the claims are largely unproven, quality control standards don't exist and the legal status of CBD-infused food is in doubt.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration plans to hold a public hearing May 31 to gather more information on the science, manufacturing and sale of cannabis compounds such as CBD.A look at what we know as U.S. regulators work out what will and won't be allowed:WHAT IS CBD?CBD is one of more than 100 compounds found in marijuana. It's extracted using alcohol or carbon dioxide in factories. It's added to oils, mixed into creams and lotions and sold in candies and liquid drops.Widely sold online, CBD now is going mainstream. Prices range from $12 to $150 an ounce at high-end shops.CBD often comes from a cannabis plant known as hemp, which is defined by the U.S. government as having less than 0.3% THC. That's important because THC is what causes marijuana's mind-altering effect.CBD doesn't get people high, although it may be calming. Keep in mind some CBD products may contain THC, whether or not the label says so.People drug tested for work, addiction programs or because they take prescription opioids should take note: CBD products have caused people to fail urine drug screens.IS IT A MIRACLE CURE?If you believe the hype, CBD treats pain, relieves anxiety and both helps you sleep and keeps you focused.Most claims are based on studies in rats, mice or in test tubes. Some human research has been done, but in small numbers of people.One exception: For two rare seizure disorders, the evidence for CBD was strong enough to convince the FDA to approve GW Pharmaceutical's drug Epidiolex, which contains a purified form.The FDA has sent warning letters to companies marketing products with claims for CBD's effects on cancer, Alzheimer's disease, fibromyalgia and drug addiction.Only drugs that have been reviewed by the FDA as safe and effective can make claims that they treat or prevent diseases or medical conditions. Many CBD producers attempt to sidestep the issue by using only vague language about general health and well-being.ANY SIDE EFFECTS?Scant research means not much is known about side effects either. In epilepsy research, CBD changed the way the body processed other drugs. That suggests CBD could interact with medications in ways we still don't know about.The most common side effects of the CBD drug Epidiolex include sleepiness, decreased appetite, diarrhea, increases in liver enzymes, exhaustion, rash and infections. The potential for liver injury and other risks can be handled with medical supervision, former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said earlier this month, but less is known about how that would be managed without oversight. And there are questions about overlap if multiple CBD products are used.IS IT LEGAL?For now, the FDA has said CBD is not allowed as an ingredient in food, drinks or dietary supplements.In stating its position, the FDA cited a provision of the law prohibiting food makers from using active drug ingredients or those still undergoing substantial research. But the agency doesn't have the resources to police all the CBD products that are already available, said Marc Scheineson, a former FDA official."They're not going to pull a thousand products from the market," he said.The FDA's authority is over interstate commerce, and local officials have taken differing approaches. In New York, Los Angeles and elsewhere, officials are warning eateries to stop selling it in food and drinks. Maine passed a law allowing it in foods and other products in the state.Skin creams and cosmetics may be on safer footing with the FDA, but that too remains uncertain, said Camille Gourdet of RTI International, a nonprofit research institute in Durham, North Carolina. Though cosmetics aren't subject to premarket approval by the FDA, they could run afoul of regulations if they make specific health claims.Marijuana itself is illegal under federal law; most states that have legalized it allow marijuana-infused foods and candies, called edibles.ARE CBD LABELS ACCURATE?What you buy may contain much less CBD than the label states — or much more. It may include more THC than you want and it may be contaminated with mold or pesticides. Ask to see testing reports.A 2017 study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found 70% of CBD products were mislabeled. Researchers used an independent lab to test 84 products from 31 companies."You're really flying by the seat of your pants when you buy this stuff," said author Marcel Bonn-Miller of University of Pennsylvania.A product labeled as containing 100 milligrams of CBD may only have 5 milligrams or it may have 200, said Bonn-Miller, now an adviser for a company that sells CBD and other cannabis products. He did not work in the industry when he did the research."I wouldn't trust any of it until I knew independently it was safe," Bonn-Miller said.WHAT'S AHEAD?CBD research is planned or underway for cancer, autism, diabetic neuropathy, fibromyalgia, chronic pain, alcoholism with PTSD and psychiatric conditions. Results will take years, but some people aren't waiting."They are vulnerable and really hoping to feel better," said Karen Hande, a nurse practitioner at Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center in Nashville.She became an expert in CBD because so many of her cancer patients were trying it. She tells them the evidence isn't enough to back the claims, but "they want to believe something is going to work."___Follow AP's complete marijuana coverage: https://apnews.com/MarijuanaAdvertisementSupported byDrugs to prevent organ rejection are not always covered for patients who had transplants before they enrolled in Medicare.By Gina KolataThe question might seem indelicate. But transplant centers find it is necessary these days to know the answer even before they place a patient on the list for an organ transplant.“How will you pay for the anti-rejection drugs?”These are patients with insurance — they need it to pay for the transplant itself — so it might seem obvious that their insurer would pay. But if, as often happens, the patient gets an organ transplant with private insurance and later enrolls in Medicare, she may be in for a shock. Necessary anti-rejection drugs may not be covered under Medicare. And without those medications, the body may reject the organ, with deadly consequences.It is “an emerging and alarming problem,” according to the American Society of Transplantation — another maddening twist in our convoluted, contradictory and confusing health care system. For those who are on Medicare at the time of an organ transplant, anti-rejection drugs are covered by the federal program for the rest of their lives.But most organ transplants go to to younger patients. According to the transplant society, 72.3 percent of liver transplant patients, 65.3 percent of heart transplant patients, and 59.7 percent of lung transplant patients are insured outside of Medicare at the time they receive new organs. Patients who were not on Medicare at the time of their transplants are required to get their anti-rejection drugs through Medicare’s drug program, Part D, which is handled through commercial insurers. Those insurers refuse to pay for many anti-rejection drugs, on the grounds that they have not been approved for certain transplant patients. Payment is required by Medicare only if the drug has F.D.A. approval for a specific organ transplant, or this use is cited in one of two drug compendia that Medicare approves.Johnathan Monroe, a spokesman for the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, wrote in an email that one of the agency’s “top priorities is to ensure that beneficiaries have access to the medications they need, including immunosuppressant drugs.” Cathryn Donaldson, a spokeswoman for America’s Health Insurance Plans, which represents insurers, said in a statement that the indications for anti-rejection drugs “are defined by federal guidelines, not health insurance providers.” For patients receiving new kidneys, access to anti-rejection drugs usually is not a problem. They are almost always on Medicare before their transplants, kept alive with dialysis. And the medications were fully tested in this group, the largest among transplant patients. But large clinical trials usually were not done to show the efficacy of some anti-rejection drugs in other transplant patients, because there were fewer of them. As a result, these medications are not officially approved for these patients, even though the drugs are widely used. Doctors say they learned by experience that many of the same drugs approved for some organ transplants also are effective in patients with other organ transplants. But Medicare Part D insurers are not required to pay for them. As a result, many Medicare patients — including most receiving lungs and many who have a transplanted intestine, pancreas or heart — need drugs that are not reliably covered by Part D insurers. Dr. David Roe, medical director of the lung transplant program at Indiana University Health, calls the coverage gap a “life-threatening problem.” He has repeatedly appealed on the part of his patients, even appealing to a judge more than once, he said. But he never got the insurers to pay.“These drugs work, in transplant patients, regardless of the organ. We all know they work,” Dr. Roe said.In a recent paper, Lisa Potter, coordinator of transplant pharmacy services at the University of Chicago, and her colleagues reported that such drugs are prescribed for 66.5 percent of lung transplant patients, 34.2 percent of intestine transplant patients, 33.4 percent of pancreas transplant patients, 21.8 percent of heart transplant patients and 16.5 percent of liver transplant patients.Transplant centers say they struggle to help patients whose prescriptions were denied by insurers. Their appeals often fail. “If a patient is denied, there is no recourse,” Dr. Potter said. “In the worst case, they will reject the organ.”Transplant centers may ask manufacturers to donate the drugs. Doctors may suggest that patients turn to fund-raising or charities. “We spend a huge amount of time and money trying to get coverage,” Dr. Potter said. Some medical centers pay for the drugs themselves, refusing to let patients die for lack of drug coverage. Claudia McGinness, 72, a retired administrator who lives near Indianapolis, had a double-lung transplant in 2008. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis had destroyed her lungs, and she could not breathe.But she had difficulty taking the standard anti-rejection drugs — she was intolerant to one, and the other didn’t work. Her doctors, including Dr. Roe, switched her to a different medication, Sirolimus. Medicare denied her claim for the drug. She appealed twice, and both times was turned down. Dr. Roe appealed to a judge, to no avail.“I still don’t have the medicine they want me to take,” Ms. McGinness said. The drug costs $496.92 for a 30-day supply, more than she can afford.So she is doing without.AdvertisementSupported bythe new old ageAs residents become older and more frail, some facilities are bringing in doctors and nurses instead of relying on 911.By Paula SpanThe patient moved into a large assisted living facility in Raleigh, N.C., in 2003. She was younger than most residents, just 73, but her daughter thought it a safer option than remaining in her own home.The woman had been falling so frequently that “she was ending up in the emergency room almost every month,” said Dr. Shohreh Taavoni, the internist who became her primary care physician.“She didn’t know why she was falling. She didn’t feel dizzy — she’d just find herself on the floor.” At least in a facility, her daughter told Dr. Taavoni, people would be around to help.As the falls continued, two more in her first three months in assisted living, administrators followed the policy most such communities use: The staff called an ambulance to take the resident to the emergency room.There, “they would do a CT scan and some blood work,” Dr. Taavoni said. “Everything was O.K., so they’d send her back.”Such ping-ponging occurs commonly in the nation’s nearly 30,000 assisted living facilities, a catchall category that includes everything from small family-operated homes to campuses owned by national chains.It’s an expensive, disruptive response to problems that often could be handled in the building, if health care professionals were more available to assess residents and provide treatment when needed.But most assisted living facilities have no doctors on site or on call; only about half have nurses on staff or on call. Thus, many symptoms trigger a trip to an outside doctor or, in too many cases, an ambulance ride, perhaps followed by a hospital stay.Twenty years after the initial boom in assisted living — which now houses more than 800,000 people — that approach may be shifting.Early on, assisted living companies planned to serve fairly healthy retirees, offering meals, social activities and freedom from home maintenance and housekeeping — the so-called hospitality model. But from the start, the assisted living population was older and sicker than expected. Now, most residents are over age 85, according to government data. About two-thirds need help with bathing, half with dressing, 20 percent with eating.Like most older Americans, they also generally contend with chronic illnesses and take long lists of prescription drugs — and more than 80 percent need help taking them correctly.Moreover, “these places became the primary residential setting for people with dementia,” said Sheryl Zimmerman, an expert on assisted living at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. About 70 percent of residents have some degree of cognitive impairment, her studies have found. So residents can find it difficult to coordinate medical appointments and tests, and to travel to offices and labs, even when facilities provide a van.“The assisted living industry has to recognize that the model of residents going out to see their own doctors hasn’t worked for a long time,” said Christopher Laxton, executive director of AMDA, a society that represents health care professionals in nursing homes and assisted living.His recent editorial in McKnight’s Senior Living, an industry publication, was pointedly headlined: “It’s time we integrate medical care into assisted living.” AMDA is considering developing model agreements.“There has to be more attention to medical and mental health care in assisted living,” Dr. Zimmerman agreed. “Does everyone who falls really need to go to an emergency department?”Lindsay Schwartz, an executive at the National Center for Assisted Living, a trade association, said in an email that “assisted living has certainly expanded its role in providing medical care over the years by adding nursing staff and partnering with other health care providers, among other ways.”But persuading most operators to provide medical care likely won’t happen without a fight. They’ve built their marketing strategies on looking and feeling different from the dreaded nursing home, and they object to “medicalizing” their communities.“They don’t want the liability,” said Dr. Alan Kronhaus, an internist who, with Dr. Taavoni (they are married), started a practice called Doctors Making Housecalls in 2002. The facilities also “live in mortal fear of bringing down heavy-handed federal regulation,” he said. That can happen when Medicare and Medicaid, which cover most residents’ health care, get involved.Doctors Making Housecalls provides one example of how assisted living can offer medical care. The practice dispatches 120 clinicians — 60 doctors, plus nurse-practitioners, physician assistants and social workers — to about 400 assisted living facilities in North Carolina.“We see patients often, at length and in detail, to keep them on an even keel,” Dr. Kronhaus said. By contracting with labs, imaging companies and pharmacies, the practice can provide most of the medical care for more than 8,000 residents, on site and around the clock. Working with a local emergency medical service, he and his colleagues reported in a 2017 study that the practice could reduce emergency room transfers by two-thirds.The Lott Assisted Living Residence in Manhattan, on the other hand, relies on a single geriatrician, Dr. Alec Pruchnicki, to provide medical care for most of its 127 or so residents.If they’re feeling sick, a family member calls or the resident just knocks on the door of “Dr. P’s” basement office. “Sometimes it’s just a cold — chicken soup,” Dr. Pruchnicki said. “But this winter we had a few cases of flu and pneumonia, things you need to treat.”Nearby Mount Sinai Hospital employs him and provides emergency services when needed. Often, they’re not. In 2005, Dr. Pruchnicki reported at medical conferences, he decreased hospitalizations by a third. “I can’t be in the only place in the country where this would work,” he said.Spending time in emergency rooms and hospitals often takes a toll on residents, even if their ailments can be treated. They get exposed to infections and develop delirium; they lose strength from days spent in bed.Perhaps that contributes to short stays in assisted living. Adult children often see these facilities as their parents’ final homes, but residents stay just 27 months on average, after which many move on to nursing homes.Adding doctors to assisted living could also cause problems, advocates acknowledge; in particular, it might increase the already high fees facilities charge.But something has clearly got to give. “There can be health care in assisted living without making it feel like a nursing home,” Dr. Zimmerman said.Family members tell of frightened and confused residents arriving unaccompanied at emergency rooms, unable to give clear accounts of their problems. Dr. Kronhaus recalls a resident with dementia taken to the local E.R. by ambulance; discharged, she was sent home by taxi. The address she gave the driver was her former home, where neighbors spotted her and called the police.By contrast, the North Carolina woman with a history of falls is doing well. AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — U.S. health officials are investigating whether electronic cigarettes may trigger seizures in some people who use the nicotine-vaping devices.The Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday it has reviewed 35 reports of seizures among e-cigarettes users, mainly in young people. Regulators stressed it's not yet clear whether vaping is responsible. But they said they're concerned and encouraged the public to report information about the issue.These cases warrant "investigation into whether there is in fact a connection," FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said in a statement. Gottlieb is stepping down on Friday after nearly two years heading the agency.Cases go back to 2010 and were reported to the FDA or poison control centers around the country. Regulators said they detected an uptick in reports beginning mid-2018. While they represent a tiny fraction of Americans who have used e-cigarettes, many safety issues with foods, supplements and other consumer products can go unrecognized because reporting is voluntary.Most e-cigarettes heat a flavored nicotine solution into an inhalable vapor. The battery-powered devices have grown into a multibillion dollar industry though there are few standards, including how much nicotine they deliver. Additionally, many refillable e-cigarettes can be used with nicotine formulas of varying strength.Nicotine poisoning can cause seizures, convulsions, vomiting and brain injury. The FDA has previously warned of potentially fatal nicotine poisoning in infants and children who accidentally swallowed nicotine solutions.Seizures usually last a few seconds or minutes and rarely cause permanent injury. But they can be a sign of underlying neurological disorders that need medical attention.Laboratory and animal studies have found a link between nicotine and hyperactivity in the brain. What needs further study is what type of e-cigarette could deliver levels of nicotine capable of causing seizures, said Maciej Goniewicz, a toxicologist at Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center in Buffalo, New York.The FDA said the handful of seizure reports often lack information about the brand of e-cigarette or whether users had a medical condition that might have contributed. In some cases, e-cigarettes were being used with drugs like marijuana and amphetamines. Some seizures were reported after just a few puffs of the device, others after a day of use.The FDA is asking consumers to report problems to an online site. The agency is seeking details about vaping brands and models and whether users who have experienced problems were also taking medications, supplements or other drugs.A spokesman for the American Vaping Association called the FDA announcement "incredibly irresponsible," given the uncertain connection between e-cigarettes and the handful of reports cited."It would actually be highly unusual if zero consumers of a product used by millions of adults over the last decade reported suffering a seizure," spokesman Gregory Conley said in a statement.It's not the first time the FDA has flagged a potential health hazard with vaping devices — the agency has warned of rare burns and explosions related to overheating of batteries that power the devices.The latest concern comes amid a nationwide push to fight underage use of e-cigarettes, which have surged in popularity among high school and middle school students. Last month the FDA outlined new restrictions on retail and online sales of most flavored e-cigarettes. Meanwhile, local and state officials are considering age restrictions, taxes and flavor bans to keep the products away from teenagers.___Follow Matthew Perrone on Twitter: @AP_FDAwriterAdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressPharmacy benefit managers are taking their turn in the Capitol Hill spotlight on prescription drug prices.The Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday held a hearing with executives from several of the biggest companies that manage prescription drug plans for insurers, employers and other clients.Pharmacy benefit managers, or PBMs, have taken criticism as middlemen who add costs to an already expensive system for prescription drugs. But the companies say they play a key role in restraining prices, partially through the rebates or discounts they negotiate for some medications.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Health officials say ground beef is the likely source of a food poisoning outbreak that has sickened more than 100 people in six states.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Friday said no specific brand or source of the meat has been determined yet.The CDC says people can continue to eat ground beef. The meat should be cooked thoroughly to 160 degrees to kill germs.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — U.S. measles cases are continuing to jump, and most of the reported illnesses are in children.Health officials say 465 measles cases have been reported this year, as of last week. That's up from 387 the week before.The numbers are preliminary. The 2019 tally is already the most since 2014, when 667 were reported. The most before that was 963 cases in 1994.Outbreaks have hit several states, including California, Michigan and New Jersey. New York City accounted for about two-thirds of the U.S. cases reported last week.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — U.S. health officials say overdose deaths involving the herbal supplement kratom are more common than previously reported.A government report released Thursday said kratom was a cause in 91 overdose deaths in 27 states. Officials previously said they knew of 44 nationally.Most who died had also taken heroin, fentanyl or other drugs. But kratom was the only substance detected in seven of the deaths.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported the numbers after combing through death certificates and toxicology reports from an 18-month period.AdvertisementSupported byA 10-year look at more than 600,000 children comes at a time when anti-vaccine suspicion is on the rise again.By Jan HoffmanAt a time when measles outbreaks are mounting among clusters of unvaccinated children, notably in Washington State, New York and Texas, a new large study published this week found no association between the measles vaccine and autism — a reason often given by parents for rejecting inoculation. The new research confirms what has long been widely accepted in the scientific community, and it echoes findings of a 2002 study by members of the same team of scientists about the vaccine, known as MMR because it protects against measles, mumps and rubella. But the findings come at a moment of resurging suspicion about vaccine safety, that has been promulgated at the far edges of the internet and on mainstream sites such as Amazon, Facebook and Pinterest. Many of those companies have taken steps in recent weeks to remove anti-vaccine content, but on Monday, the president of the American Academy of Pediatrics, Dr. Kyle E. Yasuda, wrote to the chief executives of Google, Facebook and Pinterest, urging further action in “an urgent request to work together to combat the dangerous spread of vaccine misinformation online.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]In emphatic language, the researchers, who followed 657,461 Danish children born between 1999 and 2010, stated in the Annals of Internal Medicine: “The study strongly supports that MMR vaccination does not increase the risk for autism, does not trigger autism in susceptible children, and is not associated with clustering of autism cases after vaccination.”Denmark offers a national vaccination program that is free and voluntary. At regular intervals, a team led by Dr. Anders Hviid, who is with the department of epidemiology research at Statens Serum Institut in Copenhagen, followed the children, 31,619 of whom remained unvaccinated. The researchers further broke out subgroups of children according to other inoculations, and whether they had siblings with autism.In time, 6,517 children received a diagnosis of autism. These researchers found no greater proportional incidence of the diagnosis between the vaccinated and unvaccinated children. This conclusion echoes a finding in their 2002 study of 537,303 Danish children, published in The New England Journal of Medicine.Noting that measles outbreaks are becoming more commonplace in the United States as well as Europe, Dr. Hviid said: U.S. researchers concluded that even a 5 percent reduction in vaccination coverage would triple measles cases, with significant health economic costs. A main reason that parents avoid or are concerned about childhood vaccinations has been the perceived link to autism.The results of his study, he said, offered both reassurance and reliable data that no such link exists.In an editorial accompanying the study, Dr. Saad B. Omer, a public health researcher at Emory University, and Dr. Inci Yildirim at the Emory School of Medicine, pointed out that it has been nearly a decade since the small study which set off alarms about a possible link between the vaccine and autism has been refuted and retracted. Yet resources are being continually poured into studies such as this latest one, to underscore the inaccuracy of that original misfire. “In an ideal world,” they wrote, “vaccine safety research would be conducted only to evaluate scientifically grounded hypotheses, not in response to the conspiracy du jour.”They said that doctors and public health officials needed to firmly label the association “a myth.”“Debunking a myth is tricky,” said Dr. Sean T. O’Leary, a spokesman for the American Academy of Pediatrics and an associate professor of pediatrics at the University of Colorado at Denver. When you repeat the myth, he said, “you risk reinforcing it. All that parents remember about your complicated explanation about why vaccines don’t cause autism is that they’re somehow linked. So pediatricians should focus on the diseases we’re trying to prevent and if you have to address a myth, be clear that’s exactly what it is.” Dr. O’Leary, who researches immunization delivery challenges, said that particularly because clinicians are pressed for time, they need to be able to have solid information for parents who want to look further into the issue.AdvertisementSupported byThe administration will focus on more than 50 “hot spots” in the U.S. that annually account for half of new H.I.V. infections. A clinic in the Deep South sees the challenges every day. By Donald G. McNeil Jr.JACKSON, Miss. — “I come from the smallest town in Mississippi, in the buckle of the Bible Belt,” said Gerald Gibson, outreach manager at Open Arms Healthcare Center, the only clinic created to serve gay black men in this state.“Growing up, I didn’t know anybody like me,” he added. “I come from a culture that says you’re going to hell for being homosexual and AIDS is God’s wrath.”President Trump’s plan to end America’s epidemic of H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, within 10 years is not going to succeed easily in places like this.Medically, AIDS experts agree, the plan he announced in his State of the Union address in February is sound. It has twin goals: First, to get every American who is infected with the virus — an estimated 1.1 million people — onto three-drug cocktails that, if taken every day, suppress the virus, keeping patients healthy and reducing almost to zero the odds that they will infect anyone else.The second goal is to get every American who is at risk — an estimated one million people — onto pre-exposure prophylaxis (called PrEP), a pill that, if taken daily, protects almost completely against infection.But reaching those goals will take a huge amount of money — far more than the $291 million Mr. Trump requested in his 2020 budget proposal. Moreover, it will require courageous political leadership, not just from the White House, but from every statehouse and city hall in the nation.In the last 15 years, the epidemic has shifted into groups that are hard to test and even harder to keep on daily medication: men who are closeted, drug injectors, the homeless, the rural poor, the mentally ill and those with little income and no health insurance. But the group most at risk comprises gay and bisexual black men and transgender women in the Deep South — Mr. Gibson’s peers and his clientele. More than half of new H.I.V. infections in the country each year now occur in the South, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and often in rural areas. Many of the newly infected are young black men. Nationally, gay and bisexual black men face a 50 percent lifetime risk of H.I.V. infection. The epidemic cannot be halted, experts say, unless those men can be found, educated about the disease, convinced to protect themselves and their sexual partners, and helped to do so.That often is not easy.“I had an individual hit me up on Instagram for help — he’s positive,” said Mr. Gibson, 42, referring to a man infected with H.I.V. “I said, ‘Come to the clinic. If you don’t have transportation, I’ll send a car.’ He said, ‘It’s not that simple. My family thinks I can be healed religiously.’”Mr. Gibson paused: “He’s not on medication because they think they can pray the H.I.V. away.”More than 80 percent of all new infections are transmitted by people who don’t know they are infected or who are not on medication, according to the C.D.C.San Francisco, America’s model H.I.V.-fighting city, has worked hard to extinguish the last embers of its epidemic. It may not be enough. In the 1990s, the city had over 2,000 new infections a year; it has driven that figure down to about 200. “But we’re plateauing,” said Jeff Sheehy, a former city supervisor and longtime AIDS activist who is H.I.V.-positive. “We’ve hit a wall. All the gay white boys in the Castro are on PrEP or linked to care, and now we have to reach the hard-to-reach.”Twelve percent of young gay men in the city’s ubiquitous homeless population are infected. Some undocumented immigrants fear deportation and avoid city clinics. Many H.I.V.-infected women in the city have histories of drug use, beatings and rape; they are too traumatized to organize their lives around pill-taking.“H.I.V. is now a disease of poverty, and you can’t separate it from people’s other issues,” Mr. Sheehy said. “When you have schizophrenia and are homeless and use heroin to get to sleep and speed to wake up, H.I.V. is just one of your problems.”In response, San Francisco has a corps of “navigators” who visit homeless encampments and bang on doors in downtown residential hotels to find and physically escort elusive clients to doctors’ offices and pharmacies.The city employs case managers who fill out complex insurance and Medicaid paperwork to pay for drugs and lab tests. It has opened a “trauma-informed” clinic exclusively for H.I.V.-positive women who have suffered abuse.For the uninsured, the city has its own taxpayer-supported health insurance plan. In November, the city passed a new tax on major businesses to raise $300 million to house the homeless.So what of the rest of the country, where most municipalities have only a fraction of San Francisco’s resources?Both financially and culturally, Jackson is at the opposite end of the H.I.V. care spectrum. And Mississippi officials know it. “People want us to jump to being San Francisco right away, and we’re just not there,” said Dr. Thomas Dobbs, chief of the Mississippi state health department.About a third of gay black men in Jackson are infected, he said. (Although its population is only 170,000, Jackson is the state capital, and the state’s biggest city; it has some gay bars and three H.I.V. clinics.)Outside Jackson, doctors trained to treat H.I.V. patients are rare. When Dr. Dobbs practiced in Hattiesburg, in the southeastern part of the state, he said, some patients drove almost four hours to see him.Wages in Mississippi are so low that many full-time workers could be on Medicaid. (Even health department receptionists earn just $17,000 a year, Dr. Dobbs said.) But the state legislature rejected Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act.In 2016, the health department’s budget was cut by 35 percent; it has a third fewer employees than it once did.The state receives some federal aid for H.I.V. treatment under the Ryan White Act, but almost all of it must be spent on medicine. Little is left for the services Dr. Dobbs said he would offer if he had more money: new clinics, PrEP for all takers, and hiring doctors, outbreak-tracking epidemiologists, case managers and counselors. But financial barriers are just one obstacle. The legal and cultural obstacles are bigger.Basic sexual knowledge is limited. By state law, sex education is abstinence-focused; condoms may be mentioned, but not distributed.Mr. Gibson was escorted off a junior college campus when he tried to hand out condoms and demonstrate putting them on a plastic model. “And that was to adults!” he said, shaking his head.For a study, Dr. Leandro A. Mena, Open Arms’s medical director, asked dozens of gay Jackson men to put condoms on a plastic penis; 90 percent did it wrong, he said.“They opened it with their teeth, or they didn’t check the expiration date, or they used a lube that deteriorates latex,” he said. “Many had never used one.”In New York, residents routinely see subway ads for PrEP, some of which show black men with their arms wrapped lovingly around each other.“That would definitely not be possible here,” said Dr. Sandra Melvin, Open Arms’s chief operating officer.Dr. Dobbs agreed, reluctantly admitting that his department puts coasters endorsing PrEP in gay bars and public service ads on gay dating sites like Grindr. “But we don’t put our state brand on it,” he quickly added, fearing a backlash from the legislature.There are also psychological barriers.An H.I.V. diagnosis — like a cancer diagnosis — is inevitably a shock, and many men disappear after a positive test, too shaken to start treatment. Without navigators, finding them again is hard.Also, in Mississippi, knowingly infecting someone with H.I.V. can mean 10 years in prison. “People don’t even want to get tested because if they know their status, they’re responsible,” Mr. Gibson said.Moreover, some people do not want to be seen with H.I.V. drugs.“In Jackson, a lot of down-low guys have girlfriends,” said Aaron Jones, an Open Arms phlebotomist. Those men avoid the clinic: “They say, ‘Is my business going to be spread to the world?’”Jacqueline Wilson, a clinic receptionist, discovered she was infected after catching her ex-husband in bed with a man. “A lot of women are afraid to be on the meds,” she said. “Afraid of what people will think, afraid of what the doctor will say.” And distrust of the public health system is intense.“People have heard of the Tuskegee experiment,” said Regi Stevenson, another receptionist, citing an infamous scandal in which federal health officials let black men stay infected with syphilis for decades. “My grandfather won’t go to a doctor until he’s almost dead.”Despite the obstacles, 85 percent of Open Arms patients achieve viral suppression, Dr. Mena said, meaning they take their pills so faithfully that the virus cannot be found in their blood. To reach that goal, the clinic has to offer many extra services: counselors to remind clients to take their pills, transportation for those who don't own cars, and even a food bank offering weekly food packages, since many patients are so poor they skip meals and then will not take pills that may trigger heartburn.Open Arms would like to have an on-site pharmacy too, Dr. Mena said, but has not received a license yet. Mostly, he said, a clinic must offer the right attitude.“People don’t come back to clinics where the nurse makes you feel guilty for sleeping with men, or keeps saying ‘he’ when it’s ‘she,’ or threatens to stop your meds if you don’t take them all,” he said. “People with H.I.V. are still people.”Louisiana, next door to this state, goes further: Patients whose blood tests prove they are taking their pills daily get paid.“For some folks, that’s controversial, but it works,” said Dr. Alexander Billioux, a Louisiana assistant health secretary. “And we’re not sending anyone on luxury vacations. It’s about $25 a month.”Bacteria are rebelling. They’re turning the tide against antibiotics by outsmarting our wonder drugs. This video explores the surprising reasons.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheila KaplanWASHINGTON — Dr. Norman E. (Ned) Sharpless, director of the National Cancer Institute, will serve as acting commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, Alex M. Azar III, secretary of health and human services, announced on Tuesday.Dr. Sharpless temporarily will fill the post being vacated by Dr. Scott Gottlieb, who stunned public health experts, lawmakers and consumer groups last week when he abruptly announced that he was resigning for personal reasons.Dr. Sharpless has been director of the cancer center, part of the National Institutes of Health, since October 2017. He is also chief of the aging biology and cancer section in the National Institute on Aging’s Laboratory of Genetics and Genomics. His research focuses on the relationship between aging and cancer, and development of new treatments for melanoma, lung cancer and breast cancer.“Dr. Sharpless’s deep scientific background and expertise will make him a strong leader for F.D.A.,” said Mr. Azar, in a statement. “There will be no let up in the agency’s focus, from ongoing efforts on drug approvals and combating the opioid crisis to modernizing food safety and addressing the rapid rise in youth use of e-cigarettes.”Like many previous F.D.A. commissioners, Dr. Sharpless, 52, has had a long career as an academic. Before his appointment to the cancer institute, he had served as director of the University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, a position he held since 2014.Dr. Sharpless attended medical school at the University of North Carolina, and did his residency at Massachusetts General Hospital, followed by a fellowship at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. He first became a professor at the University of North Carolina’s medical school in 2002. In addition to his academic work, and his more recent job at the cancer center, Dr. Sharpless is a founder of G1 Therapeutics, a publicly traded biotechnology company that is a developer of cancer treatments. He divested all stocks from the company when he became director of the cancer institute, according to Jeff Macdonald, a spokesman for the company.He will begin the job in early April, Mr. Azar said, after the departure of Dr. Gottlieb, who has been commissioner since May 2017.Although Dr. Sharpless has been previously mentioned as a possible successor to Dr. Gottlieb, Mr. Azar said this is a temporary appointment and that the search for a permanent commissioner is underway. A successor must be nominated by President Trump and confirmed by the Senate.Dr. Gottlieb said he supported the appointment.He also said some members of the F.D.A. were already acquainted with their new boss, who had joined them on the basketball court for weekly games.The F.D.A. regulates more than 20 percent of the goods in the United States economy, from cosmetics to contact lenses, artificial hips and prescription drugs.Dr. Gottlieb’s boldest action has been his crackdown on youth vaping, for which he blamed the e-cigarette industry. Dr. Sharpless has already signaled support for the move.In a statement issued on Tuesday, Dr. Sharpless said, “It will be an honor to advance the F.D.A.’s critical public health mission.”But it is unclear whether an acting commissioner would be able to press ahead on the more contentious fronts related to tobacco: the F.D.A.’s long-term proposals to reduce the level of nicotine in traditional cigarettes; tightening regulations on all e-cigarettes and other smoking alternatives; and pursuing a ban on menthol cigarettes. Many of the tougher restrictions face considerable opposition from Congress and the tobacco industry.Ellen Sigal, founder of Friends of Cancer Research, praised the appointment.“We have no doubt that Dr. Sharpless will continue to navigate and direct the F.D.A. in a manner that best benefits patients,” she said in an email.In a November 2018 post on the cancer center website, Dr. Sharpless said that funding for the institute had grown, but that the number of excellent ideas for important research had grown even faster.“In many ways, we are still just scratching the surface of our knowledge of cancer, how it begins, how tumors interact with the immune system and other elements of their microenvironment, how to overcome treatment resistance, and a host of other critical questions,” he wrote.Katie Thomas contributed reporting.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byDrug makers, insurers and pharmacy benefit managers face mounting pressure from Congress and the public to reduce the high list prices of drugs like insulin.By Katie ThomasConsumers whose drug benefits are managed by Express Scripts could see their out-of-pocket costs for insulin limited to $25 a month under a plan announced on Wednesday. The move is aimed at addressing rising anger over the cost of the lifesaving product, whose list price has skyrocketed in recent years. Express Scripts said about 700,000 people filed a claim for insulin last year through its Cigna or Express Scripts plans. The average monthly savings for those whose employers opted into the plan would be about $16 a month. Insurers and drug manufacturers have been under pressure to show that they are doing something about the rising list price of drugs, in particular insulin, which many people with diabetes need to survive.The average price of insulin, versions of which have been around since the 1920s, roughly doubled to about $450 a month in 2016 from around $234 a month in 2012, according to the Health Care Cost Institute. And the cost has risen even higher since 2016, putting people without insurance and those with high-deductibles at risk of rationing their doses and, in some cases, going without treatment. “For people with diabetes, insulin can be as essential as air,” said Dr. Steve Miller, the executive vice president and chief clinical officer of Cigna, which merged last year with Express Scripts. “We need to ensure these individuals feel secure in their ability to afford every fill so they don’t miss one dose, which can be dangerous for their health.”Multiple congressional inquiries have focused on insulin, and on Tuesday, a subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee held a hearing on insulin prices that featured testimony from patients and doctors. Executives from the top pharmacy benefit managers, including Express Scripts, are scheduled to testify before the Senate Finance Committee next week, when the price of insulin will also likely come up. Senators Charles Grassley, Republican of Iowa and the finance panel’s chairman, and Ron Wyden, the panel’s ranking Democrat from Oregon, sent letters to Express Scripts and two other major drug benefit managers asking for more information about the role they play in rising insulin costs. "The essential question is whether the practices employed by P.B.M.s actually reduce the cost of insulin for patients and achieve the lowest possible federal spending," the senators said in their letter.Under the new plan, employers who cover their workers through Cigna and Express Scripts can opt into the program. The extra costs will be picked up by the three drug makers that sell insulin — Eli Lilly, Novo Nordisk and Sanofi. Because the manufacturers are covering the costs, anti-kickback laws prohibit Medicare beneficiaries and other people insured through government health care programs from these types of negotiated arrangements.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Cigna and Express Scripts said the average out-of-pocket cost for consumers under their existing plans was $41.50 for a 30-day supply of insulin. (Another large pharmacy benefit manager, OptumRx, which is owned by UnitedHealthcare, cited similar costs.) The companies said that patients with a high deductible or coinsurance — where they must pay a percentage of a drug’s list price — would benefit the most.But Elizabeth Rowley, the founder and director of T1International, a diabetes advocacy group that does not accept drug-industry funding, said the new plan failed to address the underlying cause of the problem: high list prices.“This is yet another P.R. move — a stopgap at best — to release the pressure on those responsible for the insulin price crisis,” she said in an email on Tuesday. “Those patients who are lucky enough to be on a ‘participating plan’ can benefit, but what about those who aren’t? This program gives no lifetime ‘assurance’ that people with Type 1 diabetes can rely on.”About 7.4 million people in the United States use at least one form of insulin, according to the American Diabetes Association. Insulin has come under particular scrutiny not just because of its lifesaving nature but also because of the growing gap between the list price — what someone without insurance would pay at a pharmacy — and the net price, or what insurers and employers pay when someone with diabetes is prescribed insulin through their plan. As a result, patients who are uninsured or who have less-generous insurance coverage have had to pay higher prices.AdvertisementSupported byThe new rule would steer federal family planning funds under Title X to anti-abortion and faith based groups.By Pam BelluckThe Trump administration announced on Friday that it will bar organizations that provide abortion referrals from receiving federal family planning money, a step that could strip millions of dollars from Planned Parenthood and direct it toward religiously-based, anti-abortion groups.The new federal rule is almost certain to be challenged in court. Clinics will be able to talk to patients about abortion, but not where they can get one. And clinics will no longer have to counsel women on all reproductive options, including abortion, a change that will make anti-abortion providers eligible for funding.The rule, which has been expected for months, is the most recent step by the Trump administration to shift the direction of federal health programs in a conservative direction. The administration has expanded the ability of employers to claim religious or moral objections to the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that they offer employees insurance coverage for contraception. It has channeled funding for teen pregnancy prevention programs and family planning grants into programs that emphasize sexual abstinence over contraception.Some of these changes are being challenged in lawsuits by groups that support reproductive rights, but the new policies have broad support among evangelicals, who are a big part of the president’s political base.The rule announced on Friday is not a wholesale defunding of Planned Parenthood, a long-held goal of conservatives. Organizations receiving money through the federal family planning program, called Title X, will still be able to perform abortions but will have to do so in a separate facility from their other operations and adhere to the new requirement that they not refer patients to it. Organizations that receive federal funds have already been prohibited for years from using that money to finance abortion services. The new rule goes a step further by ordering them to keep separate books for their abortion operations.Many women’s organizations said the new requirements will interfere with health providers’ responsibilities to fully counsel patients about reproductive health. “Trump’s domestic gag rule harms women in more ways than one,” Stephanie Schriock, president of EMILY’S List, said in a statement. “It effectively dismantles Title X, forces doctors to lie and forbids them from referring their patients for abortion, and prevents women from being able to access Planned Parenthood’s services.”Anti-abortion organizations heralded the regulation as a long-sought victory. “The finalized ‘protect life rule’ draws a bright line between abortion and family planning programs,” Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, said in a statement, adding that the rule will loosen Planned Parenthood’s “hold on tens of millions of tax dollars.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Title X provides $286 million in funding for programs that provide services like birth control, screening for breast cancer and cervical cancer and screening and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases. These programs serve about 4 million patients each year, many of them poor, at more than 4,000 clinics. About 40 percent of those clinics are operated by Planned Parenthood, which receives close to $60 million through the family planning program each year.“In many parts of the country, Planned Parenthood is the only provider who participates in the program,” said Dr. Leana Wen, president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. She added: “Patients expect their doctors to speak honestly with them, to answer their questions, to help them in their time of need. Imagine if the Trump administration prevented doctors from talking to our patients with diabetes about insulin. It would never happen. Reproductive health care should be no different.”The new rule is not the first time a Republican administration has tried to withhold family planning funds from organizations that provide abortion counseling or services. In 1988, President Ronald Reagan barred clinics from not only referring patients for abortions, but also from counseling them about abortions.That rule was challenged all the way to the Supreme Court, which upheld it in 1991, during the administration of President George H.W. Bush. But the Bush administration did not implement it and in 1993 Bill Clinton was sworn in as president and eliminated the rule.Conservative lawmakers hailed the new rule as a long overdue move back toward the Reagan policy, and some were especially pleased by the prospect that anti-abortion health providers could now be eligible for federal family planning funds.“Importantly, faith-based health organizations will no longer be forced to compromise their pro-life principles to receive government funding,” said Rep. Steve Scalise, the House Republican Whip.But several medical organizations predicted that the new rule would ultimately leave large numbers of patients, especially low-income and minority women, without access to basic care.Dr. Niva Lubin-Johnson, president of the National Medical Association, which represents African-American physicians and their patients, said that if Planned Parenthood loses the funding, other providers supported by the program would have to increase their caseloads by an average of 70 percent to care for the 1.6 million people who currently receive such services through Planned Parenthood.“Many providers have already said they would be unable to fill this gap,” Dr. Lubin-Johnson said. “This rule will have dire and disproportionate consequences for African-American patients, who make up 22 percent of people who access health care through Title X.”Most of the changes required by the new regulation will be phased in beginning 60 days after it is published in the Federal Register. Compliance with the financial separation requirement takes effect 120 days after publication and clinics have a year to comply with the physical separation requirements.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheila KaplanWASHINGTON — With a few weeks left in his tenure as commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, Dr. Scott Gottlieb on Wednesday moved to restrict sales of flavored e-cigarettes to try to reduce the soaring rate of teenage vaping.The agency issued a proposal requiring that stores sequester flavored e-cigarettes to areas off limits to anyone under age 18. Retailers, including convenience stores and gas stations, will be expected to verify the age of their customers.“Evidence shows that youth are especially attracted to flavored e-cigarette products,” Dr. Gottlieb said in a statement, “and that minors are able to access these products from both brick-and-mortar retailers as well as online, despite federal restrictions on sales to anyone under 18.”The rate of teenage vaping has risen sharply in the last few years, with 3.6 million middle and high school students reporting that they vaped last year, according to a study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. But teenage smoking continues to be at record lows, alongside the general decline in smoking rates, a pattern that public health experts warn could be reversed if nicotine addiction spurred by vaping leads young people to traditional tobacco products.Last fall, the F.D.A. began a crackdown on teenage vaping, threatening to ban most flavored e-cigarettes and warning retailers to stop selling the products to minors. It stopped short of prohibiting the flavors.But the proposal issued on Wednesday outlines details for how retailers must wall off the areas where the products can be sold. For stores that are open to consumers of all ages, the guidelines call for a physically separated room, a spokesman said, adding that stores cannot simply hang a curtain to create a space where flavored e-cigarettes could be sold.Retailers, including convenience store and gas station owners, are on Capitol Hill this week, lobbying against the F.D.A.’s proposals. Some have threatened to fight the restrictions in court.Lyle Beckwith, a senior vice president for the National Association of Convenience Stores representing thousands of retailers, said the group did not believe the F.D.A. had the authority to impose the new requirements. “The Tobacco Control Act clearly indicates they cannot discriminate against a specific channel of distribution, which is exactly what they are doing.”Conservative groups and vaping trade associations also have come out in opposition, saying that the agency’s efforts to regulate the e-cigarette industry amount to government overreach.The new restrictions do not apply to menthol, mint or tobacco flavors, which the F.D.A. wants to keep available for adults who are using e-cigarettes to quit smoking combustible cigarettes.The F.D.A. will also track youth use of menthol and mint e-cigarettes, Dr. Gottlieb said. If they become too popular, he added, the F.D.A. will reconsider the exemption. Such a move would be especially harmful to Juul Labs. The vaping giant, under F.D.A. pressure, has already moved sales of its flavored e-cigarettes online, except for menthol, mint and tobacco, which it sells in stores.But some public health advocates say the moves are too late.“While this announcement sounds big and bold, it isn’t really,” said Micah Berman, an associate professor at The Ohio State University College of Public Health and Moritz College of Law. “The F.D.A.’s announcement exempts mint/menthol, which is the most popular flavor with kids and one that makes it easier to initiate use. And in any event, most kids are getting these products online or through older friends, not buying them in convenience stores.”The proposal also calls for banning the sale of many flavored cigars.“The data also indicate that eliminating flavors from cigars would likely help prevent cigar initiation by young people,” Dr. Gottlieb said. Under the new plan, cigar companies would have 30 days to remove the products from the market, and would have to apply for F.D.A. approval to go back on the shelves.In addition, all e-cigarettes, cigars and related products not on the market by Feb. 15, 2007, must seek F.D.A. approval to sell them by August 2021. As part of their application, manufacturers must prove that their products are beneficial to public health. The agency’s original deadline for these products to comply with new, tougher regulations was extended by Dr. Gottlieb from August 2018 to 2022. Wednesday’s action chops one year off that extension.The plan issued on Wednesday is still a draft, and must undergo a 30-day comment period before it can be finalized. It’s an unusual regulatory approach, neither a new rule, nor a voluntary guideline. Instead, the F.D.A. is telling e-cigarette makers that if their products are sold in violation of this request, they can be taken off the market, and forced to apply for agency approval. The F.D.A. can do this under its discretionary enforcement authority.Dr. Gottlieb is scheduled to have stepped down by that time, and Dr. Norman E. (Ned) Sharpless, director of the National Cancer Institute, was named this week to replace him as acting commissioner.Dr. Sharpless has expressed support for the e-cigarette crackdown to reduce teenage use. In his comments, Dr. Gottlieb stressed that the Trump administration has backed the plan.Also drawing opposition is the agency’s request in the president’s budget released on Monday to collect an estimated $100 million in user fees from e-cigarette makers, similar to the fees imposed on tobacco companies and other manufacturers, to help enforce regulations aimed at teenage vaping.Liz Mair, a Republican political consultant who founded Vapers United, a group that supports tools to stop smoking, said the user fee was equivalent to a tax on the industry and would raise prices on alternatives to traditional smoking.“If your concern is improving public health, either as a matter of altruism and ethics or pure concern for taxpayers’ pocketbooks,” she said, “your policy should generally be to keep vapor taxes lower than cigarette taxes to incentivize people to try to quit smoking using them.”Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byA lawsuit exposes how unnerved major insurers are by the Big Three’s new venture into health care benefits.By Reed AbelsonInside a federal courtroom in Boston this week, a bit of intrigue has emerged as lawyers try to pry open the secretive plans of a new venture created by three of the world’s most powerful corporations. The underlying case involves allegations made by UnitedHealth Group, which is asking a judge to stop a former executive from working at the new health care outfit created by Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase. UnitedHealth has accused the executive, David William Smith, of removing confidential, proprietary information that could benefit his new employer, and he has denied any inappropriate action. In two days of hearings and filings, however, the legal action has underscored how nervous major established players like UnitedHealth and its Optum unit are about the entry of these three big corporations into the health care field. Since the announcement a year ago, the new venture has made some splashy hires, including Dr. Atul Gawande, a well-known physician who writes for The New Yorker, as its chief executive, and a former Comcast executive who also worked at Optum. While the founding companies insist the venture would not be “profit-seeking” and was formed to address the needs of their 1.2 million employees, there has been considerable speculation about whether it would eventually expand and displace established players. JPMorgan’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon, went so far as to reassure some its investment banking clients that the three corporate giants were not going into the health care business.In court this week, Optum argued the opposite: The venture, referred to as either ABJ or ABC, “will very soon be a direct competitor, if it is not already,” Optum’s complaint declared.And Optum, which runs one of the nation’s largest pharmacy benefit managers and other businesses, with revenue topping $100 billion last year, appears to be using the legal battle to find out what it can. On Thursday, the judge briefly closed the courtroom to allow an executive from the venture to discuss confidential plans, according to STAT, a health news website. “This is not the opportunity or to be a vehicle for getting information about someone you characterized as a competitor,” Judge Mark L. Wolf warned. Not much is known about the new entity’s plans. The employers “have been radio silent about what they are doing,” said Brian Marcotte, the chief executive of the National Business Group on Health, which represents large employers. He added that Optum’s lawsuit represented “the fear of what this entity may become.”The legal skirmish is a stark example of aggressive tactics that health companies have taken to protect their turf from technology powerhouses like Amazon and Apple. UnitedHealth, in particular, has not shied away from legal action as a negotiating technique, most recently suing numerous pharmaceutical companies over the pricing for generic drugs.Insurers and pharmacy benefit managers, which act as intermediaries between employers and drug companies, are also keeping an eye on employers. “You have this influx of new threats,” said Paul Keckley, a health policy analyst.Two big health insurers, Aetna and Cigna, recently merged with pharmacy benefit managers. Anthem said Wednesday that it was moving quickly to set up an in-house operation, terminating its relationship with Express Scripts, a pharmacy benefit manager, earlier than planned after Cigna acquired it. Until recently, large employers had generally not been viewed as competitors to the insurers and pharmacy benefit managers that handle their employees’ claims, although the announcement of the ABJ venture expressed frustration with the United States health care system.The Big Three’s new venture “doesn’t have a name yet, much less any revenues,” said David Johnson, the chief executive of 4sight Health, a consulting firm. “It strikes me that they should be trying to court ABJ rather than sticking them in the eye.”The real threat to Optum may be Amazon, which has already made some forays into the pharmacy business and is willing to sacrifice profits as it builds market share. Optum is vulnerable because its customers  — particularly employers — have little insight into its businesses, which range from health data services to pharmacy benefits, said Michael Turpin, a former UnitedHealth executive who is an executive vice president at USI, an insurance brokerage. “It is truly the most opaque of all black boxes in health care,” Mr. Turpin said. He added, “Amazon is lying in the grass and will someday pop up and do something disruptive around pharmacy.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]In its filings, Optum assumes the worst, arguing that the new venture will eventually decide to offer services to the wider world. It describes Mr. Smith as asking “the court to ignore reality and believe that ABC is just a nonprofit start-up with the sole goal of improving health outcomes for the employees of its founding companies.”And it said: “In addition to the grave concerns that Optum has based simply on the depth of Smith’s knowledge of Optum’s business, products and strategic plans, Optum’s concerns regarding Smith’s employment plans are exacerbated by his pre-resignation conduct.”Mr. Smith, who signed a noncompete agreement at Optum, has contended that the new venture is not a competitor and responded that he had not removed company information. He also said he would not use any confidential information at his new employer. He and his lawyers argue that the venture, two of whose founders, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan, are already customers of Optum, would be more likely to use Optum services and products than replace them with its own. Still, when pressed in court, John C. Stoddard, an executive from the new venture, would not promise that it would not eventually compete with Optum but emphasized it had no current plans to do so, according to STAT. Judge Wolf has not indicated when he might rule in the case.Other employers are also joining forces in an attempt to find alternatives. Another group, the Healthcare Transformation Alliance, is pooling information from about 50 companies that cover more than two million people. “It’s a treasure trove of information,” said the alliance’s chief executive, Robert Andrews. AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheila Kaplan and Jan HoffmanWASHINGTON — Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, known for his aggressive efforts to regulate the tobacco and e-cigarette industries, said on Tuesday that he would resign at the end of the month.The reason he gave was family and his weariness with commuting to see his wife and three children, who have remained in their Westport, Conn. home since he took office. But his announcement caught many in Washington and the industries he regulates by surprise and raised questions about whether his push to reduce teenage vaping and lower nicotine levels and ban menthol in cigarettes will continue in an administration that generally has a hands-off approach to business.“It’s critical that his successor champions protecting kids and the rest of the nation against the tobacco epidemic,” said Cliff Douglas, vice president of tobacco control at the American Cancer Society. “Gottlieb has taken historic steps to take on this epidemic in a new way, including such proposals as reducing nicotine in cigarettes to nonaddictive levels and now pursuing a potential ban on menthol in cigarettes, so it is critical that whoever succeeds him picks up that mantel and treats it with equal priority that he has given it.”Dr. Gottlieb has been subject to increasing pressure from some Republicans in Congress and his former associates in the conservative movement for his tough stance against youth vaping and traditional cigarettes. A coalition of influential conservative groups recently asked the White House to block some key parts of the F.D.A.’s strategy to prevent youths from vaping. Republican Senator Richard Burr blasted the commissioner on the Senate floor for his proposal to ban menthol cigarettes.Dr. Gottlieb said these protests had no role in his departure.“There’s no intrigue here,” he said in an interview. A senior White House official said Dr. Gottlieb was not pressured to leave and that the President was “very fond” of him.Dr. Gottlieb said he planned to advance the F.D.A.’s pending tobacco regulations before he leaves. And he was confident, he said, that the agency’s guidance on restricting flavored e-cigarettes would be issued before he left. He acknowledged, however, that he could not predict the fate of his proposals to ban menthol in cigarettes and reduce nicotine to nonaddictive levels in cigarettes.Industry analysts expressed optimism that those initiatives would, in fact, now end.“We think this major development will be broadly viewed as a positive for the tobacco industry, although this introduces some uncertainty,” Bonnie Herzog, a managing director of equity research at Wells Fargo Securities, wrote in an email to clients. “We believe his resignation calls into question whether or not the FDA will in fact enforce harsher regulations around youth e-cig usage/access, cig nicotine limits and a cig menthol ban given he was the champion behind these initiatives.”When he was first nominated, Dr. Gottlieb seemed a figure right out of central casting for the Trump administration. As a venture capitalist who served as both a consultant and board member for drug companies, he had made a fortune from the industry he would regulate, written impassioned anti-regulatory columns in conservative journals, and held stock in industry players large and small, which he divested. But he was also a physician, and as he settled into the job, his libertarian views were often balanced by his zeal to protect public health.“He was remarkably successful at keeping the agency moving forward at a difficult time and really focused on public health challenges, including the opioid epidemic and drug prices, “ said Dr. Joshua M. Sharfstein, a former principal deputy commissioner at the F.D.A. during the Obama administration, who is now a professor of health policy at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. “He surprised a lot of people in his willingness to take some risks for public health.”Under Dr. Gottlieb’s leadership, the F.D.A. approved a record number of generic medicines, new drugs, and medical devices. He led the agency into unusual territory, calling for lower drug prices and speaking out about the opioid crisis.But his record on opioids was mixed, some policy experts said. Although the agency worked to take one powerful addictive painkiller, Opana ER, off the market, it approved Dsuvia, a new form of an extremely potent opioid, for acute pain — which public health advocates feared would be just as dangerous.Ryan Hampton, who advocates for people recovering from addictions and who has testified before Congress, recently helped launch a campaign, “Wake Up F.D.A.,” to protest the agency’s approval of Dsuvia, while being slow to approve new medications to treat addiction, though Dr. Gottlieb spoke often about the importance of doing so.“The ideal response would be not to bring more dangerous opioids to the market in the midst of a public health crisis,” Mr. Hampton said of the F.D.A. under Dr. Gottlieb. “That was a huge red flag and lapse in judgment on Gottlieb’s part. Once that happened, folks in the recovery community lost confidence in Gottlieb and the F.D.A.”Likewise, the F.D.A.’s speedy approval of many medical devices was praised by the growing industry, but has drawn strong protests from many people who believe the rate of approval has been too rapid to ensure safety. He also worked to better track outbreaks of food-borne illness, and to boost new treatments like gene therapy and targeted medicine.During his tenure at the F.D.A., Dr. Gottlieb, who was not shy about announcing his achievements, sometimes several times a day on social media, eventually moved from a hands-off approach to the nascent e-cigarette companies, to leading a clamorous fight against them, particularly as studies emerged about how teenagers swarmed the new product, unaware of the addictive properties of nicotine.In shifting his position, from giving the companies years to show that e-cigarettes were both safe and effective for smoking cessation, to urging stringent monitoring of convenience stores, vaping flavors and age restrictions, Dr. Gottlieb earned both the umbrage of pro-business leaders and some aspersions from the antismoking movement, which felt he moved too slowly.Matthew L. Myers, president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, acknowledged that Dr. Gottlieb walked a tightrope, leaving a complex record in his wake. “He has made proposals that had the potential to reduce tobacco use more dramatically than any other federal public official in U.S. history,” Mr. Myers said. “On e-cigarettes he deserves enormous credit for shining a spotlight on the crisis of its use by kids.”“But,” Mr. Myers continued, “the fact that he has not prohibited the marketing of the flavored products outright has contributed to the problem. His legacy will depend upon whether his proposals, including those for e-cigarettes, ultimately become law.”And the landmark tobacco regulation plan, announced in July 2017, has lagged in some important areas. After the tobacco industry sent thousands of letters against reducing nicotine in cigarettes to nonaddictive levels, that plan has stalled. The proposal to eliminate menthol in cigarettes has not yet been formalized. Dr. Gottlieb’s early decision to give e-cigarette companies more time to comply with new, tougher regulations is viewed by many as having opened the door to the youth vaping epidemic.Walt Bogdanich contributed reporting from New York. Annie Karni and Abby Goodnough contributed reporting from Washington.AdvertisementSupported byThe government will allow research on bird flu that had been halted over safety concerns. But officials have not publicly announced the decision nor explained how it was made.By Denise GradyResearch that could make flu viruses more dangerous, and that the government suspended in 2014 because of safety concerns, has been approved to begin again, federal officials have confirmed.The government did not  publicly announce its decisions in recent months to allow two labs to resume their projects. The new go-ahead was first reported in the journal Science.The lack of information about the decision and how it was made have provoked outrage from some scientists, who oppose the research because they say it could create mutant viruses that might cause deadly pandemics if they were unleashed by lab accidents or terrorism. The research sparked worldwide fears when it was first revealed in 2011. Two research teams, in Wisconsin and the Netherlands, have been told by the Department of Health and Human Services that their work is eligible for research funding from the United States government. The Wisconsin group was notified in October, and the Dutch group in January, a spokeswoman for H.H.S. said in an email. Despite requests from The New York Times on Thursday and Friday, officials from H.H.S. did not explain why they had not announced their decisions on the two labs at the time they were made. Spokeswomen for H.H.S. and the National Institutes of Health said the decision to lift the moratorium had already been announced in December 2017 when N.I.H. disclosed that the studies would be allowed, but only after newly created expert panels judged each proposal to be safe and scientifically sound.At that time, the government had not yet approved any specific projects.The N.I.H. said it does not generally issue news releases to announce new research grants, but does post them on its NIH Reporter website. Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said it was a sound decision to let the research resume. The money for some of the Wisconsin research — $605,206 — will come from his institute. “Look, everyone said we needed a system for this kind of research to be vetted, vetted by outsiders who were experts,” he said. “So we got a system.”Marc Lipsitch of Harvard and Tom Inglesby of Johns Hopkins University said the workings of that system should be made public. “Making decisions to approve potentially dangerous research in secret betrays the government’s responsibility to inform and involve the public when approving endeavors, whether scientific or otherwise, that could put health and lives at risk,” the scientists wrote in the Washington Post on Wednesday. In an interview, Dr. Lipsitch said lab accidents do occur, often involving human errors that biosafety and security measures cannot prevent. In several cases, he said, people mistakenly sent germ samples from a lab thinking they had been inactivated when the samples were actually live and dangerous. “This is a global issue, and standards we set in the United States will be imitated, whether they are high or low,” Dr. Lipsitch said. “The people at risk are not only Americans. If there’s a big pandemic, it’s a big pandemic for everybody. This needs to be decided at the global level, between governments and the World Health Organization.”A global furor erupted in 2011 when two labs revealed that they had altered a deadly type of bird flu virus in a way that made it more contagious among ferrets, which catch the flu in much the same way people do and are used to study how it might spread among humans. One lab was led by Yoshihiro Kawaoka, at the University of Wisconsin—Madison, and the other by Ron Fouchier, at the Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam. That particular bird flu, a type called H5N1, rarely jumps from birds to humans, but is highly lethal when it does. Infected people do not seem to spread the disease to others, but if it did become transmissible between humans, it could cause a pandemic with an enormously high death rate.Flu viruses in nature mutate a lot, sometimes changing how contagious and how deadly they are. Researchers say that manipulating those traits in the lab could identify specific genetic changes that make a virus more dangerous.  Some scientists strongly defended the importance of the research cleared to proceed.“Dr. Kawaoka’s goals for the project include understanding what molecular changes to the virus could render it capable of becoming pandemic in people so that public health officials can monitor for these changes in nature and begin to stockpile vaccines and antivirals to combat it,” Rebecca L. Moritz, a microbiologist specializing in biosafety and biosecurity who works with Dr. Kawaoka, said in an email. “The project could also yield further insights into highly pathogenic influenza viruses and lead to the development of new vaccines or antiviral drugs.”Ms. Moritz said there were many layers of security at the university lab in Madison to prevent release of the virus. She said the research was regulated by about a half dozen boards from the government and the university. Employees have to pass a background check by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and be approved by a federal agency that specializes in dangerous pathogens. People experimenting with the viruses work in a closed lab, completely covered by spacesuit-like garments and hoods with their own purified air supply. They must take a decontaminating shower before leaving the lab.Ms. Moritz said local fire departments were directed not to enter the virus lab for any reason and if there was a fire, to let it burn. If someone working in the virus lab has a medical crisis, “first-responders are not able to reach them until they have been decontaminated by qualified lab staff,” she said.The bird flu studies have not yet resumed. Once H.H.S. approves such projects, the National Institutes of Health decides whether to pay for them. N.I.H. has agreed to support the Wisconsin work, but has not yet decided on the studies in the Netherlands. Dr. Fouchier could not be reached for comment by The Times. He told Science that the N.I.H. decision was expected after an inspection of his lab, scheduled for March. Dr. Fauci said of Dr. Kawaoka: “Yoshi went through the appropriate vetting exercise. It went through multiple layers of review and examination. It wasn’t as if we all changed our minds and said, ‘Oops, never mind, go ahead and do it.’ They got very appropriately vetted with all the appropriate caveats.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times MagazineIn 1985, Michael J. Fox was one of the biggest stars in the world: “Back to the Future” and “Teen Wolf” occupied the top two spots at the box office, and “Family Ties,” the long-running sitcom on which he played Alex P. Keaton, was at its peak. “I wanted to be a rock star,” Fox told David Marchese in this week’s Talk interview. “That’s what I thought being famous was. But I wasn’t a rock star. I was kind of an idiot. I missed the point.” Six years later, Fox found out he had Parkinson’s disease, which he credits with getting him on track. Fox still acts occasionally — later roles include those on “Scrubs” and “Boston Legal” — but has dedicated his life to advocating a cure for Parkinson’s. Fox and Marchese talked about acting with Parkinson’s, taking the wrong roles and staying positive: “Until it’s not funny anymore, it is funny.”[Read our full interview with Michael J. Fox.]He still believes in a cure for Parkinson’s.His foundation, which has raised $800 million to combat the disease, has a working relationship with the government. (Still, Fox found himself upset when President Trump appeared to mock Serge Kovaleski, a reporter for The New York Times who has the joint condition arthrogryposis. But he didn’t feel the need to say anything in response: “People already know Trump is an [expletive].”) He’s still hopeful for a cure. In the interim, he’s optimistic about a new drug that acts like a rescue inhaler when people freeze, but knows that prophylactics are not a cure — but they’re better than nothing.He worried about presenting a “false hope” about his diagnosis.“I’d made peace with the disease but presumed others had that same relationship when they didn’t,” he told Marchese. But then his experience got worse: He found himself in a position where he couldn’t walk and had round-the-clock aides, and was unsure if he could still keep up his hopeful disposition. He’s working on a new book about wading through all this.His response to the diagnosis was to make a number of comedic films: “For Love or Money,” “Life With Mikey” and “Greedy,” which were critical and commercial flops.“I was so scared,” Fox told Marchese. He wishes, instead, that he had opted for quality over quantity: to have made as many good movies as possible, instead of just going along as quickly as he could. It took him about five years to fully accept his diagnosis — around the time he started onwhen he did “Spin City.”[Read our full interview with Michael J. Fox.]He left “Spin City” when he realized that his particular acting charm was starting to fade.“I used a lot of high-level muggery,” he said. “I could pull a face; I could do a double take. And one of the reasons I left ‘Spin City’ was that I felt my face hardening.” In the last few seasons, he’d have to anchor himself against a wall or piece of furniture — until it got too difficult.He knows why “The Michael J. Fox Show” didn’t succeed. Fox played a news anchor dealing with his own Parkinson’s diagnosis on the short-lived sitcom. He said he didn’t have the energy to keep the show on track, but he also puts some of the blame on NBC, wondering if the network was prepared to actually work with him — and his disease. “This is probably unfair, but I feel like one day they woke up and said, ‘Oh, he really has Parkinson’s.’ Like somebody saw me tremoring in rehearsal and said: ‘What’s wrong with him?’ ‘Uh, he has Parkinson’s remember? It’s the premise of the show.’ ”He thinks there’s a “millennial sense of humor.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Sniffling, sore-throated kids seen via telemedicine visits were far more likely to be prescribed antibiotics than those who went to a doctor's office or clinic, according to a new study.Many of those prescriptions disregarded medical guidelines, raising the risk they could cause side effects or contribute to the rise of antibiotic-resistant germs."I understand the desire for care that's more convenient and timely," said the study's lead author, Dr. Kristin Ray of the University of Pittsburgh. "But we want to make sure that we don't sacrifice quality or safety or effectiveness in the process."The study was being published Monday in the journal Pediatrics.Ray and her colleagues looked at more than 340,000 insured children who had acute respiratory illness medical visits in 2015 and 2016.Children received prescriptions for antibiotics more than half the time during telemedicine visits, compared with 42% at urgent care clinics and 31% at doctors' offices.While overprescribing can help germs build resistance to antibiotics and mutate into untreatable superbugs, they also can add a needless cost to medical bills and even cause serious side effects, said Tim Landers, an Ohio State University expert on antibiotic-resistant infections."These are not harmless drugs," Landers said, who was not involved in the study.The researchers also found that in looking at telemedicine doctors' decisions about whether to prescribe or not prescribe antibiotics, 4 out of 10 failed to meet medical guidelines on matching treatment to diagnosis. That mainly had to do with doctors prescribing bacteria-fighting drugs to treat viral illnesses, such as colds and flus, that are unaffected by antibiotics.In comparison, 3 out of 10 urgent care clinic decisions were inappropriate, and about 2 out of 10 doctors' office decisions were.The researchers also found telemedicine physicians appeared to be ignoring other guidelines. For example, doctors are supposed to take a throat swab and run a lab test before diagnosing strep throat. But that rarely happened in telemedicine visits, Ray said.A large recent study on antibiotic prescribing patterns for adults found little difference between telemedicine and office visits. But there has been little study of the issue in children.During telemedicine visits, patients interact with doctors and nurses through video or audio calls. They can be less expensive and easier than trying to get in at a pediatrician's office or hauling kids to an urgent care center.Some doctors and hospital systems use the technology for consultations, but the study focused on direct-to-consumer telemedicine programs that someone can call up without talking to their regular doctor. Only about 1 percent of the sick kids in the study were seen through such visits.The American Academy of Pediatrics, which publishes the journal, encourages parents not to use such direct-to-consumer programs. Academy officials say limited physical examinations and lack of access to patient records can harm care.But telemedicine seems to be catching on, especially among employers who believe it can save money, said Jason Doctor, a University of Southern California health policy and economics researcher.Doctor is examining ways to improve antibiotic prescribing at telehealth firms. It's an important issue, he said, because "telemedicine is going to grow. It's going to become a more routine part of people's medical care."AdvertisementSupported byThe panel, established after a Chinese experiment produced embryo-edited babies, said all human genome editing research should be listed in a registry.By Pam BelluckAn influential committee of the World Health Organization said on Tuesday that it would be “irresponsible” to try to create babies from gene-edited human embryos. The panel called for an international registry to track all research into editing the human genome.The committee was created in the wake of the birth of the first gene-edited babies — the result of an experiment by a Chinese scientist, He Jiankui, who genetically altered human embryos and implanted them in a woman who gave birth to twins last fall. His actions stirred alarm among other researchers, ethicists and policymakers, because so little is known about the safety and health effects of editing the genome of a human embryo. Many fear that the technology could be misused to create “designer babies” genetically altered to heighten physical features, intelligence or athletic prowess.Scientific and medical institutions in the United States and around the world have pledged to establish clear guidelines and a system to monitor such research. On Tuesday, after its first meeting, the W.H.O. committee  outlined some of the steps it intends to take.“The committee agrees that it is irresponsible at this time for anyone to proceed with clinical applications of human germline genome editing,” Dr. Margaret Hamburg, a co-chairwoman of the committee, said in a press briefing. The phrase “germline” refers to the modification of genetic traits that may be handed down to future generations. Dr. Hamburg said the proposed registry is partly intended to “increase accountability of scientific researchers around the world.” Scientific journals, and funders of this research, will be asked to require that anything they publish or finance be listed in the registry, she said. The committee asked the W.H.O. to immediately start creating the registry. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]“This could make a very important difference and will really increase transparency,” said Dr. Hamburg.The committee also said that over the next two years, it will develop recommendations for a “comprehensive governance framework” to help prevent rogue uses of genome editing.“Technologies are just moving so fast, so we think it’s really very important for us to engage with the scientific community,” Dr. Vasee Moorthy, a scientific adviser to the W.H.O., said at the briefing.AdvertisementSupported byIn his State of the Union address, he used scary imagery that scientists say is incorrect. By Pam Belluck President Trump on Tuesday evening asked Congress to ban a type of abortion often referred to as “late-term abortion.” He said he wanted to protect “children who can feel pain in the mother’s womb.” He scorned New York’s recently passed Reproductive Health Act, saying that lawmakers had “cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments before birth.” It was an image he has used before, including in a campaign debate with Hillary Clinton.There are inaccuracies and gray areas in Mr. Trump’s assertions. Here’s an explanation of the terms and the science. Roe v. Wade, the 1973 Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion, said that abortion should be allowed until the time a fetus could survive outside the womb, a point (known as viability) that medical science generally considers to be at about 24 weeks of pregnancy. The Court has also specified that abortion should be legal after viability in certain cases — if continuing the pregnancy would seriously threaten the woman’s life or health.Late-term abortion is a phrase used by abortion opponents to refer to abortions performed after about 21 weeks of pregnancy. It is not the same as the medical definition obstetricians use for “late-term,” which refers to pregnancies that extend past a woman’s due date, meaning about 41 or 42 weeks. Contrary to Mr. Trump’s claim, late-term abortions do not allow “a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments before birth.”Very rare. The most recent data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows that about 1.3 percent of abortions performed in the United States in 2015 occurred in or after the 21st week of pregnancy. Abortions after 24 weeks comprise less than one percent of all abortions. When they occur, it is usually because the fetus has been found to have a fatal condition that could not be detected earlier, such as a severe malformation of the brain, or because the mother’s life or health is at serious risk.This is a complex issue. Most scientists who have examined the question say fetuses do not develop the neurological wiring that would give them the ability to feel pain until at least 24 weeks — in other words after nearly all abortions occur. An analysis of research in this area published in JAMA in 2005 found that pain sensation requires neural connections into the cortex, and the cortex is not functionally developed until the 26th week or later. In 2010, a panel appointed by Britain’s Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists published another large review of the research concluding that “most neuroscientists believe that the cortex is necessary for pain perception” so “the fetus cannot experience pain in any sense prior” to 24 weeks.State laws vary. According to the Guttmacher Institute, a research organization that supports abortion rights, 43 states ban some abortions after a certain point in pregnancy. New York’s Reproductive Health Act was passed to make sure the state would continue to ensure the right to an abortion if the Supreme Court were to overturn all or part of Roe v. Wade. Some lawmakers in New York’s Democratic-controlled legislature said they were concerned that President Trump’s appointments of two conservative justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh, might put federal abortion protections at risk.The new state law says a health provider may perform an abortion in the state before 24 weeks — and later if the fetus is not considered viable or if the procedure is considered necessary to protect the woman’s life or health. Those are all similar to stipulations made by the Supreme Court.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — From his eyes to his immune system, astronaut Scott Kelly's body sometimes reacted strangely to nearly a year in orbit, at least compared to his Earth-bound identical twin — but newly published research shows nothing that would cancel even longer space treks, like to Mars.The good news: Kelly largely bounced back after returning home, say scientists who released final results from NASA's "twins study," a never-before opportunity to track the biological consequences of spaceflight in genetic doubles.It marks "the dawn of human genomics in space," said Dr. Andrew Feinberg of Johns Hopkins University. He led one of 10 teams of researchers that scrutinized the twins' health down to the molecular level before, during and after Kelly's 340-day stay at the International Space Station.More importantly, the study "represents more than one small step for mankind" by pointing out potential risks of longer-duration spaceflight that need study in more astronauts, said Markus Lobrich of Germany's Darmstadt University and Penny Jeggo of the University of Sussex, who weren't involved in the work.The findings were published in Friday's edition of the journal Science, on some notable space anniversaries — when Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin became the first person in space in 1961, and the first launch of the space shuttle in 1981.KEY FINDINGSNASA already knew some of the toll of space travel, such as bone loss that requires exercise to counter. This time, NASA-funded scientists looked for a gamut of physiologic and genomic changes that Scott Kelly experienced in space, comparing them to his DNA double on the ground, former astronaut Mark Kelly. Some results had been reported in February.Possibly the weirdest finding had to do with something called telomeres, the protective ends of chromosomes. Those tips gradually shorten as we get older, and are thought to be linked to age-related diseases including some cancers.But in space, Scott Kelly's telomeres got longer. "We were surprised," said Colorado State University telomere expert Susan Bailey. She can't explain it although it doesn't mean Kelly got younger. Back on Earth, his telomeres mostly returned to preflight average although he did have more short telomeres than before.Next, Kelly's DNA wasn't mutated in space but the activity of many of his genes — how they switch on and off — did change, especially in the last half of the voyage, which ended in March 2016.Immune system genes especially were affected, putting it "almost on high alert as a way to try and understand this new environment," said study co-author Christopher Mason, a Weill Cornell Medicine geneticist in New York.Again, most gene expression returned to normal back home, but some of the immune-related genes were hyperactive six months later."We learned that the human body is pretty resilient and we can survive and to some extent maybe even thrive on these long-duration flights," Mark Kelly said.Other findings:—Some changes in the structure of Kelly's eye and thickening of his retina suggested that, like about 40% of astronauts, he experienced symptoms of "spaceflight-associated neuro-ocular syndrome." It may be caused by fluids shifting in the absence of gravity.—He experienced some chromosomal instability that might reflect radiation exposure in space.—A flu shot given in space worked as well as one on Earth.—Kelly aced cognitive tests in space but slowed down after his return, maybe as more things competed for his attention.WHAT THE KELLYS SAY"It was a real privilege to be part of this study," said Scott Kelly, who spent the year in space along with Russia's Mikhail Kornienko. Kelly retired from NASA soon after his return.He said it probably took him six months once back on Earth before he felt 100% again, but acknowledged his wife said it seemed more like eight months. What was particularly hard, he said, was getting used to not having a schedule dictating his life in five-minute increments every single day, like there was in space.During a teleconference he joked with his twin, "I got all the glory and you got a lot of work.""I got people coming to my house, right, for tubes of blood," responded Mark Kelly."But it's great we saw and we learned that the human body is pretty resilient and we can survive and to some extent maybe even thrive on these long-duration flights," he added.As for trips to Mars, Mark Kelly said: "I hope it's sooner rather than later, and hopefully, our participation in this study will help us get closer to making a mission like that a success."ULTRA LONG-DISTANCE TESTINGResearchers needed months' worth of blood, urine and fecal samples, along with cognitive and physical tests and ultrasound scans. That meant getting creative: Some blood samples required analysis so rapidly that Kelly would time collection so the blood could travel on Russian Soyuz capsules carrying other astronauts back to Earth.That wouldn't be an option on a three-year trip to Mars. One of the study's technological advances: Portable DNA-sequencing equipment that will let astronauts run some of their own genomic analyses on future missions, said Weill Cornell's Mason.WHAT'S NEXT?Studying one pair of twins can't prove risks of spaceflight, researchers cautioned. And longer missions, to the moon or Mars, will mean greater stress and radiation exposure.Colorado State's Bailey plans to study 10 additional astronauts on yearlong missions, using the twin findings as a road map. More one-year missions are planned by NASA, officials said, but no details were given Thursday."We need to get outside of low-Earth orbit and we need for the astronauts to spend longer periods of time to really evaluate some of these health effects," she said.deadly germs, Lost curesOveruse of the medicines is not just a problem in rich countries. Throughout the developing world antibiotics are dispensed with no prescription required.Heaps of garbage in Kibera, Nairobi — one of Africa’s largest slums.CreditCreditAndrew Renneisen for The New York TimesSupported byBy Andrew Jacobs and Matt RichtelNAIROBI, Kenya — Four days after her toddler’s health took a turn for the worse, his tiny body racked by fever, diarrhea and vomiting, Sharon Mbone decided it was time to try yet another medicine.With no money to see a doctor, she carried him to the local pharmacy stall, a corrugated shack near her home in Kibera, a sprawling impoverished community here in Nairobi. The shop’s owner, John Otieno, listened as she described her 22-month-old son’s symptoms and rattled off the pharmacological buffet of medicines he had dispensed to her over the previous two weeks. None of them, including four types of antibiotics, were working, she said in despair.Like most of the small shopkeepers who provide on-the-spot diagnosis and treatment here and across Africa and Asia, Mr. Otieno does not have a pharmacist’s degree or any medical training at all. Still, he confidently reached for two antibiotics that he had yet to sell to Ms. Mbone.“See if these work,” he said as she handed him 1,500 shillings for both, about $15.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Antibiotics, the miracle drugs credited with saving tens of millions of lives, have never been more accessible to the world’s poor, thanks in large part to the mass production of generics in China and India. Across much of the developing world, it costs just a few dollars to buy drugs like amoxicillin, a first-line antibiotic that can be used against a broad range of infections, from bacterial pneumonia and chlamydia to salmonella, strep throat and Lyme disease.Kibera residents are prodigious consumers of antibiotics. One study found that 90 percent of households in Kibera had used antibiotics in the previous year, compared with about 17 percent for the typical American family.But the increasing availability of antibiotics has accelerated an alarming downside: The drugs are losing their ability to kill the germs they were created to conquer. Hard-wired to survive, many bacteria have evolved to outsmart the medications.And as these mutant bacteria commingle with other pathogens in sewage canals, hospital wards and livestock pens, they can share their genetic resistance traits, making other micro-organisms impervious to antibiotics.Antibiotic resistance is a global threat, but it is often viewed as a problem in rich countries, where comfortably insured patients rush to the doctor to demand prescriptions at the slightest hint of a cough or cold.In fact, urban poverty is a huge and largely unappreciated driver of resistance. And so, the rise of resistant microbes is having a disproportionate impact on poor countries, where squalid and crowded living conditions, lax oversight of antibiotic use and a scarcity of affordable medical care are fueling the spread of infections increasingly unresponsive to drugs.“We can’t effectively mitigate the growing problem of antibiotic resistance without dealing with places like Kibera,” said Dr. Guy H. Palmer, a researcher at Washington State University who studies resistance in Africa. “There are a billion people living in similar situations, and as long as they aren’t getting clean water and basic sanitation, all of us are at risk.”Worldwide, resistant pathogens already claim 700,000 lives each year, according to one British study. Resistance here in Kenya is not just a potential calamity for future generations: Lack of effective treatment is already claiming thousands of lives each year, many of them young children whose immune systems have yet to fully develop, according to government figures.Sam Kariuki, a researcher at the Kenya Medical Research Institute who has been studying resistance for two decades, said nearly 70 percent of salmonella infections in Kenya had stopped responding to the most widely available antibiotics, up from 45 percent in the early 2000s.Salmonella kills roughly 45,000 Kenyan children every year, or nearly one in three who fall severely ill with it, he said. In the United States, the mortality rate is close to zero.“We are quickly running out of treatment options,” Professor Kariuki said. “If we don’t get a handle on the problem, I fear for the future.”In some cases, vendors sell counterfeit antibiotics that contain none of the active ingredient, or so little that they accelerate resistance. Even when the drugs are authentic, many poor Kenyans try to save money by buying just a few tablets instead of the full course — not enough to vanquish an infection but enough to allow bacteria to mutate and gain resistance.“Who am I to deny them what they want?” asked Lena Ochomba, 40, a pharmacy stall owner in Kibera who earns most of her income selling antibiotics, often three or four pills at a time — an amount that is one-third or less of the recommended course for most antibiotics. “Even when I manage to sell the whole box, my customers rarely take them all because they think it’s just too many pills.”There is no escaping human waste in Kibera. It oozes from shallow, hand-dug latrines, pools into rivulets and finally builds into a black river.At night, feces-filled plastic bags are tossed from rooftops by those afraid to venture outdoors. Residents call them flying toilets.Ms. Mbone and her husband have become inured to the sight and smell of untreated sewage that flows in front of their one-room shack. With no other place to play, their son, Shane, and his 3-year-old sister sometimes end up frolicking in the muck. “They are kids, they will always go outside to play,” said Ms. Mbone, 19. “How can you stop them?”A plastic bucket brimming with store-bought medicine is a testament to the ailments that have dogged Shane for most of his short life. Born prematurely, he spent his first few weeks in a clinic and then at a hospital. Even with subsidized care, the medical bills came to roughly $200, equivalent to 10 months of wages that Ms. Mbone’s husband earns as a bus station porter. Since then, she has been reluctant to take Shane to a doctor. “I’m worried if I go to a bigger hospital, the bill will be bigger too,” she said.Ms. Mbone isn’t convinced that the unsanitary conditions are to blame for Shane’s health problems. Other children play in Kibera’s drainage ditches, she noted, while few are bedeviled by the constant diarrhea that afflicts her son.But epidemiologists and public health experts who have studied Kibera say there is a direct correlation between the community’s poor hygiene and the infections that stalk nearly every household. Harmful bacteria in feces that is allowed to seep into the surrounding soil can survive for months, and in densely populated settlements like Kibera that are veined with dirt paths, they easily find their way into food and water, often by residents who unknowingly carry the pathogens into their homes on shoes or unwashed hands.According to a 2012 study by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cases of typhoid fever among children in Kibera were 15 times higher than those living in a rural area west of the capital; infections in Kibera were even higher in low-lying areas where sewage tends to pool. The study also found that 75 percent of the typhoid strains found there were resistant to commonly available antibiotics.“A lack of sanitation leads to more disease, which leads to higher antibiotic use, which leads to greater resistance,” said Marc-Alain Widdowson, principal deputy director of the C.D.C.’s Division of Global Health Protection for Kenya, which has been doing surveillance work in Kibera since 1979. “It’s a vicious cycle.”Sylvia Adhiambo Omulo, a researcher at Washington State University’s global health program who has spent the past several years studying antimicrobial resistance in Kibera, said she was stunned by the ubiquity of resistant pathogens like E. coli.“It’s in the soil, it’s on the kale people eat, and also on the hands of adults and children,” she said one afternoon as she trudged through Kibera’s muddy footpaths, dodging children, stray dogs and the occasional chicken. “It’s no wonder people here are constantly sick.”When residents feel unwell, they often turn to people like Mr. Otieno, the roadside drug vendor who wears a white lab coat and keeps the bulb in his stall burning late into the night.Ms. Mbone relies on him for affordable drugs, but also for a sympathetic ear and the occasional cash loan. “These chemists are my neighbors,” she said. “I trust their advice.”A wiry man with sharp features and a gentle manner, Mr. Otieno, 32, is a lifelong resident of Kibera. Unable to find full-time work after high school, he spent several years assisting another chemist in the neighborhood until he saved up enough money for his shop.With its baby blue interior, medical posters on the wall and a cabinet overflowing with bandages, Mr. Otieno’s stall could be mistaken for a health clinic. Despite his lack of training, he said years of hands-on experience informed his prescribing decisions, and he knows the antibiotics aren’t working because they often don’t cure the people who buy them.“There’s a lot of antibiotic resistance here,” he said. “That is why people keep coming back to get different antibiotics.”If Ntihinyuirwa Thade had been conscious, the doctors at Kijabe Mission Hospital would have asked about his medical history, including a list of antibiotics he had taken in recent years. But Mr. Thade, 25, a migrant laborer from Rwanda, was on a ventilator and unconscious, having fallen from the upper floor of a building project. He was not wearing a hard hat and suffered a grievous head injury.A week after the accident, he was facing a more immediate threat: A Klebsiella pneumonia infection was blossoming in his lungs. Mr. Thade’s condition failed to respond to the three antibiotics already flushed into his veins, so his doctor, George Otieno (no relation to Mr. Otieno, the pharmacy stall owner), was preparing to administer the final drug in his limited arsenal, a relatively expensive antibiotic called meropenem. “If that doesn’t work…,” he said, his voice trailing off.Klebsiella bacteria are omnipresent in the environment — in the soil and in the human gut — but they can turn deadly for people with frayed immunities.Dr. Otieno acknowledged that Mr. Thade most likely acquired his through the plastic breathing tube that was keeping him alive.Many of the world’s leading medical institutions struggle with resistant microbes and Kijabe, one of Kenya’s best hospitals, is no different.Nestled in a verdant valley just outside Nairobi, it boasts top-notch equipment and a mix of Kenyan and foreign doctors that draw patients from across the country. But being a referral hospital has a downside: Many people arrive quite sick and have already cycled through a plethora of antibiotics. “Oftentimes they have taken every drug that is commonly available,” said Dr. Evelyn Mbugua, an internist.Mr. Thade was one of several patients that day struggling to overcome resistant bugs. In the pediatric ward, a one-month-old baby, Blessing Karanja, was fighting a worrisome blood infection, and elsewhere in the hospital, Grace Mutiga, 65, a retired nurse, was back again with a tenacious respiratory infection.Having taken five different antibiotics over the previous few weeks — drugs purchased at the local pharmacy — Ms. Mutiga was running out of options. “We’ll have to see if we can get an antibiotic from Nairobi,” a doctor said as Ms. Mutiga struggled to catch her breath.In Kenya and other emerging economies, the most effective antibiotics are not always available, or affordable. Loice Achieng, an infectious disease doctor at Kenyatta National Hospital, shook her head when recalling one recent patient, a 65-year-old kidney transplant recipient infected with Pseudomonas aeruginosa, a bacterial illness that is often acquired in hospitals.After the patient had taken every appropriate antibiotic available in Kenya, Dr. Achieng told the family their only hope was Avycaz, a four-year-old, American-made drug. There were hurdles, however, including red tape from Kenyan customs officials and a $10,000 price tag for a 10-day course. After several days, his children managed to gather the necessary funds, but it was too late. The man died.Kenya has officially embraced what public health experts call antimicrobial stewardship, the effort to stem resistance by reducing the overuse of antibiotics, promoting vaccinations and encouraging better hygiene among hospital workers. Over the past two years many of the country’s medical institutions have established stewardship committees. Wall-mounted hand sanitizers have become a common sight in hospital hallways and patient waiting areas.But the government has made little headway in enforcing laws that require prescriptions for buying antibiotics, nor has it done much to stem the flow of bootleg drugs that spill across the nation’s 400-mile border with Somalia.“It’s proving more difficult than we thought,” said Dr. Widdowson of the C.D.C., who has been advising the government.Back at Kijabe Hospital, Mr. Thade’s condition was growing more dire. As nurses prepared him for yet another X-ray, Dr. Otieno talked about the challenges of tackling drug resistance.A passionate man with wide, expressive eyes, Dr. Otieno, 36, is a driving force behind the hospital’s newly established antimicrobial stewardship program. But he expressed frustration over the lack of progress, describing overworked nurses reluctant to embrace complex hygiene protocols and the hospital’s own pharmacy, which he said continued to overprescribe antibiotics.“To be honest, based on the past, I don’t have faith that we will solve this. I don’t think our government thinks it’s a big problem,” he said, as Mr. Thade’s limp, swollen body was lifted onto a gurney.“I worry about my country, but also about my own family. One day I could go home and infect my own children with one of these dangerous bugs.”In the days that followed, Mr. Thade’s condition stabilized enough that he was moved out of the intensive care unit. Though his injuries prevented him from walking, he regained consciousness and seemed to be recovering, his doctors said, but the infection was tenacious and gave no ground to meropenem, the best antibiotic in the hospital’s arsenal. Three months later, after the infection spread to his blood, Mr. Thade died alone in his bed and far from home. “God rest his soul,” Dr. Otieno said.Christina Goldbaum contributed reporting from Nairobi.Andrew Jacobs is a reporter with the Health and Science Desk, based in New York. He previously reported from Beijing and Brazil and had stints as a Metro reporter, Styles writer and National correspondent, covering the American South.  @AndrewJacobsNYT AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronIn the days after President Trump was elected, some women saw his victory as reason to worry: Would he fulfill his campaign promise to repeal the Affordable Care Act? And if so, would it eventually become harder and costlier to obtain birth control?News organizations sounded the alarm: “Get an IUD Before It’s Too Late,” a Daily Beast headline warned. “Here’s Why Everyone Is Saying to Get an IUD Today,” said a New York Magazine piece.In November 2016, Sarah Christopherson, the policy advocacy director at the National Women’s Health Network, told Broadly, a branch of Vice Media, that women should be “very, very worried” about birth control.So did women rush to obtain intrauterine devices and contraceptive implants?A study published on Monday in JAMA Internal Medicine supports what doctors had already observed: There was an increase in the insertion rate of long-acting reversible birth control devices soon after the 2016 presidential election.“The unique thing about IUDs and implants is that they last for so long,” said Dr. Lydia Pace, an assistant professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School and the lead author of the study. Because the devices were so long-lasting, women were taking advantage of insurance coverage provided under the Affordable Care Act, and getting a birth control method with the longevity to weather potential policy changes.The IUD, a small device placed in the uterus, has been shown to be more than 99 percent effective at preventing pregnancy and can work for up to 12 years, depending on the type. But without insurance coverage, IUDs can be expensive: Out-of-pocket costs can be from $500 to $1,000. Implants are also more than 99 percent effective and last up to five years, but can cost up to $1,300 without insurance.The study, which only looked at women enrolled in commercial health insurance, found a 21.6 percent increase in the insertion rates of long-acting reversible contraceptive methods among women ages 18-45 in the 30 days after Mr. Trump was elected.When the researchers examined the 30 days before and after the election, and compared it to the same time period in 2015, they found that an additional 2.1 IUDs or implants inserted per 100,000 women per day were associated with the election, though it isn’t possible to know for sure because they did not study the motivation of the women who received them. If these results were extrapolated to the 33 million women in the United States between the ages of 18 to 45 who have employer-sponsored health insurance, it would mean that an estimated 21,000 additional devices and implants were inserted in the month after the election, Dr. Pace said, an increase she described as “impressive.”“Was there something else that happened that could account for that rise?” Dr. Pace asked. “Not that I know of.”There has been a gradual increase in use of IUDs and implants in recent years, which Dr. Pace’s study took into account. It also controlled for characteristics such as the location and age of the insured, and the type of health plan. The data did not provide information about the race or ethnicity of the women, and did not include women who had public health insurance or no insurance at all.The study’s findings were not surprising to Dr. Aparna Sridhar, an associate professor in obstetrics and gynecology at the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles.“My slots would be booked with women wanting to get IUDs,” she said. “They would specifically state that they are getting an IUD because of the political changes they are witnessing.” The requests came from privately and publicly insured patients, she said.At the U.C.L.A. Student Health Center, the changes were especially pronounced. Dr. Sridhar and her colleagues examined the data and found the total number of long-acting reversible contraceptive insertions at the center increased to 118 in the eight weeks after the 2016 presidential election from 53 in the eight weeks before the election.Planned Parenthood saw a higher demand as well. In the first week after the 2016 election, there was “an unprecedented surge in questions about access to health care and birth control, both online and in our health centers, and a nearly tenfold increase in appointments for IUDs,” Elizabeth Clark, the director of health media at the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, said.The Affordable Care Act required insurance companies to cover 18 types of contraception, including IUDs and implants, and gave millions of women access to birth control without the need for a co-payment. The Trump administration originally rolled back the birth control mandate in 2017, a move that was quickly challenged in federal court.New Trump administration rules published in November allow employers to obtain an exemption based on their “sincerely held religious beliefs” or moral convictions. But a federal court issued a nationwide injunction in January that prevented the administration from interfering with women’s access to free birth control.Given that the study examined only the first 30 days before and after the election, it may not have captured everyone who was planning to obtain long-acting birth control. Getting an appointment with a private doctor can sometimes take months.Data from 2017 was not available at the time of the study, which makes it impossible to know if the increase was sustained. Another analysis conducted by Athenahealth showed a drop-off in demand in the months after election. Dr. Pace and her colleagues plan to examine trends in contraceptive use in the years after 2016.“Our findings suggest that many women with private insurance value the contraceptive coverage provided by the Affordable Care Act,” Dr. Pace said. “In light of recent events, women may have ongoing anxiety about their coverage that may continue to influence their contraceptive choices and decision-making.”AdvertisementSupported byInfants are rarely born alive after abortion procedures, and if they are, doctors do not kill them.By Denise GradyThe latest battle in the nation’s continuing war over abortion involves a federal bill called the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. Senate Democrats this week blocked the bill from reaching a vote, and President Trump responded with an angry tweet.Senate Democrats just voted against legislation to prevent the killing of newborn infant children. The Democrat position on abortion is now so extreme that they don’t mind executing babies AFTER birth....The bill would require doctors to use all means available to save the life of a child born alive after an attempted abortion. They must, it says, “exercise the same degree of professional skill, care, and diligence to preserve the life and health of the child” as they would for “any other child born alive at the same gestational age.”Senator Ben Sasse, the Nebraska Republican who is the author of the bill, had called it an “infanticide ban.” Opponents said that the bill was aimed at discouraging doctors from performing legal abortions and that it was unnecessary because a similar law already exists, the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act of 2002.It hardly ever happens, according to Dr. Daniel Grossman, a professor of obstetrics, gynecology and reproductive sciences at the University of California, San Francisco. He performs abortions and is a spokesman for the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, where he leads a committee on health care for underserved women.A healthy fetus becomes viable — potentially able to survive outside the womb — at about 24 weeks of pregnancy. Only about 1.3 percent of abortions in the United States in 2015 were performed in or after the 21st week of pregnancy, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Less than 1 percent of all abortions are done after 24 weeks, and many are performed because the fetus has a fatal condition or the pregnant woman’s life or health is at severe risk.If an abortion is performed at 20 weeks or later, a drug may be injected to stop the fetal heartbeat before the fetus comes out of the womb, Dr. Grossman said. In other cases, suction devices and other instruments end the fetus’s life before it is removed, he said.Dr. Grossman said there were painful situations in which the fetus might be at the edge of viability and labor must be induced to save the mother’s life. For instance, a condition called pre-eclampsia, involving high blood pressure and other problems, can kill both mother and fetus, and in most cases the only treatment is to deliver the baby. If it seems unlikely that the baby will survive, the family may choose to provide just comfort care — wrapping and cuddling the baby — and allow the child to die naturally without extreme attempts at resuscitation.The bill would force doctors to resuscitate such an infant, even if the parents did not want those measures, said Dr. Jennifer Conti, an obstetrician gynecologist who is a fellow of Physicians for Reproductive Health, an advocacy group. Doctors who violated the law would be subject to criminal penalties, as would anyone who saw the violation and failed to report it, she said.Dr. Grossman said that medically, every case was different. “There isn’t a bright line,” he said. “No one could say we would always do this at one gestational age, and do something else at another gestational age. It depends on whether the fetus is already compromised.”Dr. Conti, a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Stanford University, who also performs abortions, said a patient recently had an abortion at 23 weeks because the fetus had severe abnormalities that were considered incompatible with life.The woman chose not to have the injection to stop the fetal heartbeat, preferring that her fetus die a natural death. The death occurred during the procedure, before the fetus left the womb, Dr. Conti said. Had it not, she added, comfort care would have been provided.AdvertisementSupported byA government panel’s new recommendations could bring hope to many women at risk for the condition. Here is what the group said and how you can use the information.By Pam BelluckFor the first time, a national health panel has recommended a way to prevent depression during and after pregnancy. This condition, known as perinatal depression, affects up to one in seven women and is considered the most common complication of pregnancy. The panel, the United States Preventive Services Task Force, said two types of counseling can help keep symptoms at bay. Its recommendation means that under the Affordable Care Act, such counseling must be covered by insurance with no co-payment. Here’s a guide to what to look for and how to get help.Perinatal depression can occur during pregnancy or any time within a year after childbirth. As defined by the panel, it can involve major or minor depressive symptoms that last for at least two weeks, including loss of energy or concentration, changes in sleeping and eating patterns, feelings of worthlessness or suicidal thoughts.It’s not the same as the “baby blues,” which is less severe and doesn’t last as long. The panel said “baby blues” can occur right after childbirth and can include crying, irritability, fatigue and anxiety, symptoms that usually disappear within 10 days.Many things can raise a woman’s risk of depression during and after pregnancy. Having a personal or family history of depression is a significant risk factor. Others include a range of experiences that can generate stress: recent divorce or relationship strain; being a victim of abuse or domestic violence; being a single mother or a teenager; having an unplanned or unwanted pregnancy. Economic burdens increase the risk — about one in three low-income women develops depression during or after pregnancy.There’s no way to accurately screen women for the likelihood they might experience depression during or after pregnancy, but the panel said that any woman with even one of the risk factors listed above should seek counseling to help prevent it. Scientists are trying to understand how genes and hormones play a role in perinatal depression, knowledge that could eventually help predict which women might develop it. “We don’t have a good screening tool specifically for identifying people at risk for perinatal depression,” said Dr. Melissa Simon, a panel member who is vice chairwoman of research at Northwestern’s Feinberg School of Medicine’s obstetrics and gynecology department. “We need a tool.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The report found that women receiving one of two forms of counseling were 39 percent less likely than those who didn’t to develop perinatal depression. One approach involves cognitive behavioral therapy, which helps women navigate their feelings and expectations to create healthy, supportive environments for their children. The other involves interpersonal therapy, including development of coping skills and role-playing exercises to help manage stress and relationship conflicts.The panel cited two specific programs that have been successful: “Mothers and Babies,” which includes cognitive behavioral therapy in eight to 17 group sessions, with at least two of those sessions after childbirth, and “Reach Out, Stay Strong, Essentials for New Moms” or ROSE, typically delivered in four sessions during pregnancy and one postpartum.The two programs work with both first-time mothers and women who already have children. They are available in Spanish and focus on low-income women. Both are expanding and testing different ways of delivering their curriculum, which is provided free to clinics and community health agencies. The panel’s recommendation will require insurance to cover counseling at no cost to women receiving it. Health providers delivering it might have to pay for costs like babysitting and transportation for pregnant women who attend.The task force evaluated the strongest research available on possible prevention methods, including physical activity, education, infant sleep advice, yoga, expressive writing, omega-3 fatty acids and antidepressants. In the 50 studies it analyzed, there were hints of promise with a few approaches, including physical activity and three programs in Europe (Britain and the Netherlands) that involved home visits by midwives or other health providers. But the evidence of benefit wasn’t strong enough with anything except counseling.The panel also looked for any harm that prevention methods could cause. They found negative effects in the two small studies with antidepressants. One study reported instances of dizziness and drowsiness among women who took Zoloft. The other reported that more women taking Pamelor experienced constipation.That doesn’t mean antidepressants aren’t good at treating actual depression, said a panel member, Karina Davidson, who is senior vice president for research for Northwell Health. After all, that’s what they’re designed for. But the studies so far don’t suggest that these drugs are the best method to prevent pregnancy-related depression before it develops.If you have symptoms, seek help from a mental health provider, a community health center, a primary care doctor, or ask for a referral from your obstetrician or your baby’s pediatrician. Treatment might involve therapy, medication or both. For more advice and programs and support networks in your area, organizations like Postpartum Support International and Postpartum Progress are good resources. AdvertisementSupported byDistrust, fear and lack of communication from aid groups have alienated communities in the Democratic Republic of Congo, leading some people to spurn treatment and even attack treatment centers. By Denise GradyThe family of a young woman who died from Ebola last month in the Democratic Republic of Congo dressed her body, put makeup on her face and propped her up in a car, hoping to make her look alive so they could drive her through checkpoints set up to prevent spread of the disease. It was dangerous: Corpses are highly infectious. But they wanted to bury her in another town, next to her husband, who also had died of Ebola. Their desperate ploy failed. They were stopped at a checkpoint, according to a report from the country’s Ministry of Health.The family’s flight, and apparent lack of understanding that bodily fluids spread the disease, help explain why this Ebola outbreak, in its seventh month, has become the second largest ever. No end is in sight, despite the use of promising antiviral drugs and a vaccine that were not widely available in past epidemics. The deadliest outbreak occurred from 2014 to 2016, in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, and sickened 28,610 people and killed 11,308.Last August, an unrelated outbreak began in the war-torn northeastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo. So far, 907 cases and 569 deaths have been attributed to the disease, near the country’s borders with Rwanda, South Sudan and Uganda. The region has decent roads and a highly mobile population, experts said, so there is constant concern that the disease will spread to those countries.More than 80,000 people have been vaccinated, and although hard data is lacking, experts suspect that without the vaccine, the epidemic would have grown much larger. But efforts to stamp out the disease are failing in some areas because many people still don’t understand Ebola, and also because heavy-handed measures by outside organizations, local police and the military have alienated the communities, officials from aid groups and doctors who have worked in the region said. Fearful of being confined in isolation units, people have avoided testing and treatment. They do not want outside interference in rituals around death and burial.“Ebola responders are increasingly being seen as the enemy,” Dr. Joanne Liu, president of Doctors Without Borders, said at a news conference in Geneva on Thursday. “In the last month alone, there were more than 30 different incidents and attacks against elements of the response.”“The existing atmosphere can only be described as toxic,” she said.Some people in the region question why the vaccine is being given only to certain people — including health workers and contacts of patients — and not to everyone, she said. Many wonder why outside aid has flooded in for Ebola, but not for malaria, diarrhea or other common, debilitating diseases that afflict many more people. Some have asked aid workers where they were when militias were carrying out massacres of civilians.The northeastern part of the country where the epidemic has struck has been a conflict zone for decades, with more than 100 armed groups, as well as security forces posing a constant threat of violence to the population. Distrust of outsiders is entrenched, and grew in two areas, Beni and Butembo, after the government barred residents there from voting in the long-delayed elections in December, supposedly because of concerns about the spread of Ebola. Many people thought the government had used the disease as an excuse to keep them from voting, and some of their anger turned against the outside groups that had drawn so much attention to Ebola.Recent attacks on two treatment centers operated by Doctors Without Borders led the group to close them, and brought a scorching and highly unusual self-assessment by Dr. Liu, who included her organization among those that had fallen short. She urged medical teams to treat Ebola patients “as humans and not as a biothreat.”She blamed not the communities, but the responders, for failing to win people’s trust.“They hear constant advice to wash their hands, but nothing about the lack of soap and water,” Dr. Liu said. “They see their relatives sprayed with chlorine and wrapped in plastic bags, buried without ceremony. Then they see their possessions burned.”In a piercing essay published on Thursday in The New England Journal of Medicine, another physician from Doctors Without Borders, Dr. Vinh-Kim Nguyen, wrote: “Early in the epidemic, we witnessed armed agents forcibly bringing patients in for treatment. In a population already traumatized by violence and forceful responses to numerous crises, such tactics fuel distrust of responders, which prompts patients to flee and spawns violence.”Dr. Nguyen also noted that when Ebola teams were accompanied by security forces, they were met with fear and distrust, especially of forced vaccination. But when the security forces were absent, people would actually ask to be vaccinated.“The lesson is clear: Guns and public health don’t mix,” he wrote.Dr. Liu said aid groups needed to offer help in ways the community would accept, even if it meant helping families to safely care for Ebola patients at home, or giving them information and equipment to carry out safe burials on their own. The key to stopping past epidemics had been to isolate the sick and track everyone who might have been exposed, until there were no more new cases. But that approach is not succeeding in Congo.“More than 40 percent of the deaths are right now happening in the community,” outside of treatment centers, Dr. Liu said. “That means we have not reached them and they have not sought our care.”It also means that untold numbers of people around these patients have been exposed and may have contracted the disease.A spokesman for the World Health Organization, Tarik Jasarevic, confirmed that 40 percent of deaths were occurring in the community.“But, and this is key, despite these worrying figures, the response has managed to bring the outbreak under control in 10 of 19 affected health zones, where there have not been cases in three weeks or more,” he said in an email. “The incidence numbers have dropped steadily since November. Clearly the response has had traction in these places, despite the challenges of community mistrust engendered by the years of conflict they have endured.”But he also acknowledged that building trust was an important part of the work to be done.“In every newly affected town, W.H.O. and partner social scientists and anthropologists work with local leaders to understand the context and tailor the approach to what works,” he said. As an example, he cited Beni, where the community had been hostile, but health workers were able to bring the outbreak under control within weeks. “Other areas, like Katwa/Butembo continue to be a challenge,” Mr. Jasarevic said. Dr. Liu said that about 35 percent of the new cases were in people who were not in known chains of transmission. “That means we do not know how they got it,” she said. Mr. Jasarevic differed, saying that many infected people were eventually traced back to previously identified chains.The epidemic continues to smolder, and could still flare more dangerously, said Dr. Daniel G. Bausch, a professor at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.”I don’t think we should be complacent,” he said. “I don’t want to be alarmist, either, but one unlucky event can change everything.” As an example, he cited an infected person carrying the disease to a densely populated area not prepared to deal with it. Another problem, Dr. Liu said, is that some patients do not seek treatment until it is too late to save them. “Ebola still has the upper hand,” she said.  Steve Wembi contributed reporting from Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheila KaplanDr. Scott Gottlieb plans to work on drug prices and other health policy issues as a part-time fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, after he leaves his post as commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration.His last day at the F.D.A. is Friday. In an interview, Dr. Gottlieb said he was not yet sure what other work he would pursue beyond the half-dozen or so days he’d spend each month at the conservative think tank. Although A.E.I., where Dr. Gottlieb once worked, opposed some regulations of vaping, it did not take part in the vituperative public attacks on Dr. Gottlieb for his work to end the youth vaping epidemic like much of the rest of the Washington conservative establishment.Dr. Gottlieb took office in May 2017, and was best known for his aggressive drive to regulate the tobacco and e-cigarette industries. But he also ventured beyond the typical regulatory boundaries for an F.D.A. chief, frequently criticizing the prescription drug industry for high prices and accusing some pharmaceutical businesses of gaming the system to avoid the competition that would lower them.A prolific writer of op-eds, Dr. Gottlieb said he would focus on some of the structures in the Medicare program that inhibit competition.“We have product competition in the market but we don’t have price competition because of the way the payments are structured, in part because the drug industry has lobbied for rules that are in some cases an impediment to true competition,” he said.He also expects to continue working on the issue of brand name drug companies blocking generic competitors from entering the market, and related problems.Dr. Gottlieb said he plans to spend the summer relaxing with his family before working full time. Before coming to the F.D.A., he had a varied career; he has been a practicing physician, a venture capitalist and entrepreneur and also served as a drug company adviser and board member.Dr. Gottlieb’s announcement that he would step down as commissioner came as a surprise to the industries his agency regulates and to Congress. The reason he gave was weariness with his weekly commute to see his wife and three children, who have remained in their Westport, Conn., home since he started the job. If he had it to do over, Dr. Gottlieb said, he would have moved them to Washington right away.Some of the agency’s highest profile work during Dr. Gottlieb’s tenure, other than tobacco control, was the speeding up of drug and medical device approvals, measures that won industry praise but also heavy criticism from public health advocates who feared for public safety.But tobacco is what Dr. Gottlieb will be remembered for, and the question of whether his successors will continue his mission with the same fervor is still up in the air. Much of the F.D.A.’s tobacco control plan is years from being formally adopted, if ever. It includes measures to ban menthol cigarettes, curb youth vaping and reduce nicotine to non-additive levels in traditional cigarettes.Dr. Gottlieb will be replaced, at least temporarily, by Dr. Norman “Ned” Sharpless, currently director of the National Cancer Institute, who will become acting F.D.A. commissioner.AdvertisementSupported byHigh-tech surgical robots aren’t an improvement over traditional operations, the F.D.A. warns. For some patients, the robots may be worse.By Roni Caryn RabinRobotic surgery was never approved for mastectomy or any other cancer-related treatment, but that has hardly deterred doctors in the operating suite. The equipment is widely used to operate on patients with various malignancies, from breast cancer to prostate cancer.Yet there have long been questions about how well doctors are trained on the machines, and whether the devices are better for patients than traditional methods. Now the Food and Drug Administration has warned that there is no evidence cancer patients receiving robotic procedures live longer than those who have traditional procedures. And some research shows that patients with cervical cancer fare worse.“We want doctors and patients to be aware of the lack of evidence of safety and effectiveness for these uses so they can make better informed decisions about their cancer treatment and care,” said Dr. Terri Cornelison, assistant director for the health of women at the F.D.A.’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Robotic systems have been on the market for more than 15 years, and have been used for cancer surgery for much of that time. The machine’s tower, which is positioned over the patient, looks a bit like a multi-armed Star Wars droid. Three of its arms hold surgical devices, while a fourth holds a camera.The robot’s arms are controlled by a computer that replicates the movements of the operating surgeon, who manipulates the robot’s controls while looking at a monitor that provides a magnified, high-definition image of the operating site.The F.D.A. noted the findings of two studies published last year in the New England Journal of Medicine. One of them was a clinical trial that was stopped early after investigators found that women with cervical cancer who had so-called minimally invasive hysterectomies, including robotically assisted procedures, experienced four times as many cancer recurrences and six times as many deaths, compared with patients who had the more traditional procedure. The trial’s findings were especially striking because the surgery, a radical hysterectomy, usually cures patients with cervical cancer, said Dr. Pedro T. Ramirez, lead author of the paper and director of minimally invasive surgical research at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.A second study funded by the National Institutes of Health used a database to compare the outcomes of 2,461 women with cervical cancer who had different types of surgery. Four years after the operation, 9.1 percent of those who had minimally invasive surgery had died, compared with 5.3 percent of those who had open surgery.Yet many physicians continue to recommend robotic surgery to patients, despite the evidence of harm. “Several surgeons have said to me, ‘I can’t find a flaw in your study, but I just can’t stop doing it,’” Dr. Ramirez said.Dr. Ramirez’s own department stopped doing minimally invasive radical hysterectomies in October 2017, when the first study’s results were confirmed.“My feeling is, this is about patient care,” he said. “It’s not about how much time you devoted to your training or your ego. It’s an issue of cancer, and having a high likelihood of cancer coming back if you have surgery through this approach.”It is not clear why cervical cancer outcomes were worse following minimally invasive surgeries. Dr. Ramirez suggested that the instruments used to manipulate the cervix and uterus may cause cancer cells to spread. Another possibility is that the carbon dioxide pumped into the abdomen during robotic and other minimally invasive procedures — it provides working and viewing space for the surgeon — may increase the likelihood of cancer cells implanting, Dr. Ramirez said.The F.D.A.’s warning was not limited to cervical cancer: Robotic surgical devices are not authorized for prevention or treatment of any cancer, nor are they approved for mastectomy (removal of the breast), the agency said. The agency also urged health care providers “to complete the appropriate training” needed for performing robotic surgery, and urged patients to ask doctors about their training and experience, as well as about their patients’ outcomes.In 2000, the F.D.A. allowed the sale of one of the first robotic surgery systems, the da Vinci Surgical System, under a process called “premarket notification,” which is often used to bring medical devices on to the market without the rigorous safety and efficacy trials required for new drugs.Under premarket notification, devices are “cleared” for use on the grounds that they are similar to devices already available. The da Vinci system is cleared for some urological and gynecological procedures, among others. A similar robotic device, the Senhance Surgical System, was approved for gynecological and colorectal surgery, among other procedures. But the efficacy of either system for cancer treatment has not been evaluated by the F.D.A. And none of the systems have been cleared for mastectomy, or removal of the breast, which has become a frequent use.The F.D.A.’s approval was “based on evaluation of the device as a surgical tool and did not include evaluation of outcomes related to the treatment of cancer,” the agency said. The F.D.A. reviewed short-term data on outcomes, a spokeswoman said, not the long-term data important to cancer patients.So why are these machines allowed in cancer surgery at all? According to a spokeswoman, the F.D.A. does not regulate the practice of medicine. “If a medical provider determines it’s appropriate to use a product off-label, we don’t regulate that,” she said. “However, in this case, we were concerned about scientific journals and media reports referring to off-label uses.”Many surgeons tout the benefits of robotic surgery, with its smaller incisions, saying the procedures bring shorter recovery times, less pain or blood loss and fewer scars and infections. Those are important measures, said Dr. Ramirez. But “if you tell a patient you may stay in the hospital one or two days longer versus going home the same day, but there is a higher likelihood your cancer is going to come back, what are you going to choose as a patient? Of course, you’ll stay in the hospital.”Proposals to conduct another clinical trial to test the cervical cancer outcomes would be unethical, Dr. Ramirez said, because results from the first study were clear. Physicians who continue to use robotic and minimally invasive approaches for cancer treatment “in the face of the evidence may put themselves in legal jeopardy,” said Dr. Michael Carome, director of the health research group at Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy organization.AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronPinterest, a digital platform popular with parents, took an unusual step to crack down on the proliferation of anti-vaccination propaganda: It purposefully hobbled its search box.Type “vaccine” into its search bar and nothing pops up. “Vaccination” or “anti-vax”? Also nothing.Pinterest, which allows people to save pictures on virtual pinboards, is often used to find recipes for picky toddlers, baby shower décor or fashion trends, but it has also become a platform for anti-vaccination activists who spread misinformation on social media.It is an especially effective way to reach parents: 80 percent of mothers and 38 percent of fathers in the United States are on Pinterest, according to 2017 data from comScore. The company has more than 250 million monthly active users and is expected to go public this year.Other platforms like Facebook and YouTube have also been infiltrated with misinformation about vaccines, and are taking steps to combat it. One of YouTube’s policies is to demonetize anti-vaccine videos.But only Pinterest, as first reported by The Wall Street Journal, has chosen to banish results associated with certain vaccine-related searches, regardless of whether the results might have been reputable.“Right now, blocking results in search is a temporary solution to prevent people from encountering harmful misinformation,” said Jamie Favazza, a spokeswoman. The company said it was working with experts to develop a more tailored long-term approach.The changes, which were not publicly announced, started in September and October.Opposition to vaccinations can be traced to the introduction of the first vaccine in the 18th century. Over time most people accepted vaccines, and diseases that could be prevented by them declined. They declined so much, in fact, that the success of vaccines may have muted the dangers associated with those diseases.The World Health Organization identified “vaccine hesitancy” as one of this year’s 10 notable threats to global health.“I think this is stunning,” said Dr. Gregory A. Poland, director of the Mayo Clinic’s Vaccine Research Group in Rochester, Minn. “It shows the magnitude of the problem.”Despite clear evidence that vaccines are effective and safe, some people still choose not to get vaccinated or to vaccinate their children, which has contributed to a surge in measles cases worldwide. In the United States, there have been five measles outbreaks this year and at least 127 individual cases.One or two in 1,000 children who contract this highly contagious disease will die. Last year, measles killed 72 adults and children in the European region, where measles has reached its highest levels in two decades. While measles deaths are rare in developed countries, the illness can have severe lasting consequences, such as vision loss.There are several reasons for vaccine hesitancy: worries about side effects, cost, moral or religious objections, fears about a debunked link to autism and lack of knowledge about immunizations.“We’re just seeing all sorts of misinformation flying around on social media,” said Arthur L. Caplan, head of the Division of Medical Ethics at the New York University School of Medicine, who has been writing about vaccine ethics and policy for 25 years.“Fake news. Fake science,” he said on Friday. “Everybody’s an expert.”Last week, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, a Democrat and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, wrote a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, asking what steps the company was taking to prevent anti-vaccine information from being recommended to users. He sent a similar letter to Sundar Pichai, the chief executive of Google, which owns YouTube.YouTube said on Thursday that it started surfacing more authoritative content in late 2017 for people searching for vaccination-related topics, and that its algorithmic changes would become more accurate over time.YouTube also said it does not permit anti-vaccine videos to show ads.“We have strict policies that govern what videos we allow ads to appear on, and videos that promote anti-vaccination content are a violation of those policies,” a YouTube spokeswoman said on Friday. “We enforce these policies vigorously, and if we find a video that violates them we immediately take action and remove ads.”An analysis by The Daily Beast of seven Facebook pages that promote anti-vaccine posts found that the pages had bought a combined 147 Facebook ads that had been viewed millions of times. Most of them targeted women over the age of 25, it reported.“We’ve taken steps to reduce the distribution of health-related misinformation on Facebook, but we know we have more to do,” Andrea Vallone, a Facebook spokeswoman, said in a statement. “We’re currently working on additional changes that we’ll be announcing soon.”The company said it was considering reducing or removing this type of content from recommendations and demoting it in search results.Dr. Poland, an internist who has spent 35 years in the vaccine field, said he often encountered patients who relied on social media when researching health questions.“I will explain to a patient in detail the answer to their question and they’ll look at me and say, ‘Yeah, but I saw on Facebook that …’” he said, his voice trailing off. “You just want to tear your hair out.”Twitter said that it had no specific policy to stem the spread of misinformation about vaccines but that its real-time nature was a “powerful antidote.”“We, as a company, should not be the arbiter of truth,” Katie Rosborough, a Twitter spokeswoman, said in a statement on Friday, adding that the company was working to surface the highest-quality and most relevant content first.For all of these companies, containing the spread of misinformation, particularly about something as emotionally charged as vaccines, will be a lasting challenge as they balance fears about censorship with the need to promote useful content, experts said.“It’s a mess that I don’t see easily solved,” Dr. Poland said.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressGENEVA — A year after claims of sexual assault and harassment rocked the U.N. agency that fights HIV, UNAIDS looked like it might be on the mend. The top deputy facing the allegations had departed, the leader who presided over the troubled institution announced plans to bow out early and managers vowed to correct the agency's "toxic" atmosphere in a scathing probe.But the upheaval is not over.Confidential documents obtained by The Associated Press show UNAIDS is grappling with previously unreported allegations of financial and sexual misconduct involving Martina Brostrom, who went public last March with claims that one of the organization's top officials assaulted her in 2015.As part of a preliminary internal inquiry, investigators for the World Health Organization, which oversees UNAIDS, wrote that they had found "evidence" that Brostrom and her former supervisor may have taken part in "fraudulent practices and misuse of travel funds," the documents show.The inquiry was put on hold in late 2016 after Brostrom asked for whistleblower protection in a formal complaint to UNAIDS Executive Director Michel Sidibe alleging that Dr. Luiz Loures, one of Sidibe's deputies, forcibly kissed her and tried to drag her out of a Bangkok hotel elevator. In a statement that did not identify Brostrom by name, UNAIDS said the investigation was suspended "to safeguard the integrity of a potentially related sexual harassment case."Edward Flaherty, a lawyer for Brostrom, said she had no knowledge of any such inquiry."She is unaware, and has not been advised, of any such investigation and denies any assertion of impropriety," Flaherty said of the Swedish employee.The ongoing turmoil is a damaging distraction for an agency at the center of multibillion-dollar, taxpayer-funded U.N. efforts to end the global AIDS epidemic by 2030. The virus affects more than 37 million people worldwide and kills more than 900,000 people every year.The allegations of sexual assault and managerial mismanagement prompted Sweden to announce last year it would suspend its funding to the agency. The Scandinavian country is UNAIDS' No. 2 donor, providing more than $30 million in 2017."Anytime there are claims about misuse of funds, it's incredibly damaging to an agency's credibility," said Devi Sridhar, a professor of global public health at the University of Edinburgh."UNAIDS goes into countries to protect those who are marginalized, including sex workers, drug users, poor communities — to advocate for AIDS prevention and treatment," Sridhar said. "How can they do that when it's widely known there's an internal culture that permits bad behavior?"Brostrom's complaint against Loures prompted two inquiries — a U.N. investigation that concluded there was insufficient evidence to support her claims and an independent assessment of the agency's management that found a culture of impunity and "defective leadership."Amid the resulting criticism, Sidibe announced he would step down in June, six months early. Loures left after his contract expired last March.Brostrom, who some credited with sparking a #MeToo movement at the U.N., told Sidibe in November 2016 that her work environment became increasingly fraught immediately after the alleged assault by Loures. Brostrom was working as a technical adviser in UNAIDS' Office of Special Initiatives when the problems with Loures began."LL started to explicitly block my work, excluded me from participation in key meetings in areas in which I was leading and blocked my requests for duty travel," she wrote in an email that was provided to the AP. She said she became "the victim of a malicious and anonymous defamation campaign in early 2016."According to internal documents reviewed by the AP, the U.N. ethics office and other senior UNAIDS officials received a series of anonymous emails in early 2016 alleging misconduct by Brostrom's former supervisor, prompting the preliminary internal review that ultimately grew to include examining Brostrom's own conduct.Brostrom told officials that immediately after the alleged attack by Loures, she called her mother, a friend and her then-supervisor to tell them what happened. Brostrom's mother told WHO investigators that her daughter "was very upset and she was crying and she didn't think that such a thing could happen to her."When Brostrom went public with her story, two other women described similar encounters with Loures, who denies all the allegations."I have always said that the allegations made against me are false," Loures told the AP in an email Saturday. Loures said Brostrom's accusations against him were only made after he took steps to investigate the misconduct of her former male supervisor."I found (they) had not taken permission for travel on several occasions and had cheated the system," he said.Brostrom and her former supervisor are both currently on leave from UNAIDS for undisclosed reasons. The WHO investigation into them remains preliminary.In the preliminary report obtained by the AP, which described discussions with both Brostrom and the supervisor regarding potential misconduct, officials noted that they reviewed an array of documents, including more than 1,900 emails.In one confidential memo provided to the AP, WHO investigators said they found evidence that Brostrom and her ex-boss "may have engaged in unprofessional conduct," including the misuse of funds. The two were reproached for "abusing U.N. privileges by requesting special U.N. rates when booking hotels for the purpose of having sexual encounters." The preliminary review found one instance where Brostrom and her colleague apparently told hotel management "to forge an invoice" to claim their personal costs were business-related, the memo said.WHO investigators also wrote that they found evidence suggesting the pair routinely used their work email accounts "to exchange messages with explicit sexual language, profanity and nudity."WHO's initial investigation concluded "such conduct may have exposed UNAIDS to high reputational risk" and referred the matter to UNAIDS to determine "the best course of action."The July 2018 memo was marked "confidential" and sent from WHO's Office of Internal Oversight Services to Gunilla Carlsson, deputy executive director at UNAIDS.The sexual assault and harassment case against Loures has been reopened and is now in the hands of the U.N. Office of Internal Oversight Services following criticism of how it was handled by UNAIDS and WHO.The investigation into potential misconduct by Brostrom and her former supervisor will resume "as soon as appropriate," UNAIDS spokeswoman Sophie Barton-Knott said in an email.The lingering inquiries mean UNAIDS' new leader will inherit unfinished business that casts a shadow over donor support.Global health expert Sridhar called for UNAIDS' management to be overhauled."I wouldn't give up hope on UNAIDS, but there needs to be a new leadership to change the culture there," she said. "People tend to behave badly when they think that kind of corruption is permitted."Sweden's foreign ministry said it was not planning to restore funding to UNAIDS imminently.The U.S. is UNAIDS' biggest donor, supplying the agency with more than $82 million in 2017.AdvertisementSupported byBy Roni Caryn RabinAs investigators closed in on Purdue Pharma, the maker of the opioid painkiller OxyContin, more than a decade ago, members of the family that owns the company began shifting hundreds of millions of dollars from the business to themselves through offshore entities, the state of New York alleged in a lawsuit on Thursday.The legal complaint, released at a news conference by the state attorney general Letitia James, was heavily redacted. Even so, it contains striking details alleging systematic fraud not only by the Sacklers but by a group of large but lesser-known companies that distributed alarming amounts of prescription painkillers amid a rising epidemic of abuse that has killed hundreds of thousands of people nationwide.The major pharmaceutical distributors — Cardinal Health, McKesson and Amerisource Bergen — warned pharmacies when their monthly opioid limits were approaching, then helped them manipulate the timing and volume of orders to circumvent the limits, the complaint charged. On the rare occasion when a distributor would conduct “surprise” audits of its customers, it would often alert them in advance, the complaint says.Over the past two decades, more than 200,000 people have died in the United States from overdoses involving prescription opioids, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. About 200,000 more have died from overdoses involving illegal opioids, like heroin.In New York State, where prescriptions for opioids increased ninefold between 2000 and 2011, opioid-related deaths have more than doubled since 2013, the lawsuit said. Nine New Yorkers die each day.A look at how opioids hijack the brain, from temptation and tolerance to relapse and recovery.The suit, filed in New York State Supreme Court in Suffolk County, names eight Sacklers: Richard, Jonathan, Mortimer, Kathe, David, Beverly and Theresa Sackler, as well as Ilene Sackler Lefcourt. It seeks to claw back funds that it alleges were transferred from Purdue Pharma to private or offshore accounts held by family members in an effort to shield the assets from litigation; to order the Sacklers to return any transferred assets; and to restrain them from disposing of any property.A spokesman for the Sackler family called the allegations “a misguided attempt to place blame where it does not belong for a complex public health crisis. We strongly deny these allegations, which are inconsistent with the factual record, and will vigorously defend against them.”A spokesman for Purdue Pharma said the company and its former directors “vigorously deny” the charges set forth in the complaint, and will defend themselves against the “misleading allegations.”The Sacklers are one of the richest families in the United States, known for their generous philanthropy in the arts. But they have come under increasing scrutiny after new documents came to light in a Massachusetts case suggesting that some family members helped direct misleading marketing efforts for OxyContin and ignored evidence that the drug was being abused. Over the past several weeks, a number of cultural institutions in the United States and abroad have said they will no longer accept the family’s money.The New York lawsuit alleges that Sackler family members abolished quarterly reports, insisted that numbers be recounted only orally to board members, and voted to pay themselves millions of dollars, often through offshore companies.It further charges that in 2007, while Purdue was being investigated by federal prosecutors, the family created a new company to sell opioids, called Rhodes, which a former Purdue official said was specifically set up as a “landing pad” for the Sacklers because of the crisis surrounding OxyContin, according to the lawsuit.The lawsuit details methods allegedly used to flood the market with Oxycontin.Rhodes, which is owned by trusts benefiting the Sacklers and is overseen by members of the family, started selling generic opioids in 2009, the lawsuit says. By 2016, Rhodes had a far greater share of the opioid market than did Purdue, according to a Financial Times article quoted by the lawsuit.“Whereas the Sacklers have reduced Purdue’s operations and size, Rhodes continues to grow and sell opioids for the benefit of the Sackler families,” the legal complaint said.By 2014, fearing that Purdue could face catastrophic financial judgments, the Sacklers directed Purdue to pay family members hundreds of millions of dollars a year in distributions, sending money to offshore companies, the lawsuit claims, an act of clear “bad faith.”As a result of these distributions, the lawsuit says, “assets are no longer available to satisfy Purdue’s future creditor, the state of New York.”The complaint takes a skeptical view of recent reports that the company is considering filing for bankruptcy. It charges that the company is actually conducting “a well-thought out and deliberate media campaign to intimidate the litigating states, including New York, by threatening to commence bankruptcy proceedings.”The lawsuit also goes well beyond other cases in spelling out in granular detail how pharmaceutical distributors played a role in the opioid epidemic by ignoring blatant “red flags” that indicated mountains of opioids were being diverted for illegal use.The distributors are far less known than opioid makers and retailers, but they are among the wealthiest companies in the United States. (The lawsuit says all three are in the top 20 in terms of revenue.) Distributors buy drugs in bulk from manufacturers and then sell them to pharmacies and other distributors, such as clinics. They are legally bound to monitor the quantities sold to each vendor and alert regulators if the amounts seem excessive.The suit (which also names a regional distributor, Rochester Drug) alleges that the distributors turned “a collective blind eye as orders for opioids in New York skyrocketed” and drugs known to be dangerous “came to be dispensed like candy.”A spokeswoman for Cardinal Health said the company has a rigorous system in place to flag and report suspicious orders and has enhanced the program over time.“We report suspicious orders to the federal Drug Enforcement Administration and state regulators but we do not know what they do with those reports, if anything,” the spokesman said, adding, “Our people operate in good faith and our goal is to get it right.”A spokeswoman for McKesson said the company would not issue a statement in response to the lawsuit, but has stated in the past that it is deeply concerned about the opioid epidemic and is continuously enhancing programs to detect and prevent illicit diversion and sales of controlled substances.The lawsuit alleges that Cardinal Health — which distributed 780 million oxycodone pills to its New York State customers between 2010 and 2018 — appointed people with no experience to key compliance positions and gave them no training.The company fired employees who alerted executives to pharmacies who repeatedly requested excessive orders, and even, for a time, did away with written site visit reports, according to the suit.One drugstore in Suffolk County was in the 99th percentile of opioid sales in the state from 2011 through the first quarter of 2018, the complaint said; Cardinal reported an average of 85 suspicious orders a year from the pharmacy yet continued to deliver opioids to the drugstore.The lawsuit amends an earlier suit New York State filed against Purdue Pharma, the company considered primarily responsible for unleashing the current opioid epidemic by misleading doctors about the OxyContin’s dangers and ignoring evidence that the drug was being abused.The lawsuit adds other opioid manufacturers, including Janssen Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson; Mallinckrodt; Endo Pharmaceuticals; Teva Pharmaceuticals; Allergan; and many of their affiliated companies.New York is one of three dozen states to sue opioid manufacturers, litigation that is separate from the bundle of 1,600 opioid-related federal cases being overseen by a United States District Court judge in Ohio, who hopes to help craft a single comprehensive settlement — an objective that may be out of reach.With the exception of Alabama, which joined the federal consolidation, these states potentially stand to wrest swifter, bigger paydays for their constituents, as long as the states can prove their cases. This week Purdue Pharma and the Sacklers agreed to pay $270 million to settle a case in Oklahoma that was to go to trial in May.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byPregnant women who worked two or more night shifts a week were at increased risk of miscarriage.By Nicholas BakalarPregnant women who work night shifts may have an increased risk for miscarriage.Researchers studied 22,744 pregnant Danish women, tracking their work schedules and hospital admissions for miscarriage using government databases.The study, in Occupational & Environmental Medicine, found that after eight weeks of pregnancy, women who had worked two or more night shifts during the previous week had a 32 percent increased risk of miscarriage compared with women who did not work nights. Working only one night shift a week did not significantly increase the risk.The study adjusted for maternal age, previous miscarriages, smoking, socioeconomic status, body mass index and other factors.The lead author, Dr. Luise Moelenberg Begtrup, a postdoctoral researcher at Bispebjerg Hospital in Copenhagen, said that this is an observational study that does not prove causality, and that it has to be replicated in other studies and in other populations. Most of the women in this study were health care workers.AdvertisementSupported byPeople who ate an anti-inflammatory diet rich in fruits, vegetables, nuts and fish were less likely to have gingivitis.By Nicholas BakalarThe right diet may improve gum health, a small study has found.German researchers studied 30 people with gingivitis, the inflammation of the gums that can cause redness, swelling and bleeding. A dentist measured the severity of their gingivitis and their levels of plaque, the bacteria-laden film that builds up on the teeth and can cause gum disease.The researchers took blood samples, and the participants filled out diet questionnaires. Then the scientists randomized half the group to an anti-inflammatory diet rich in fruits, vegetables (especially legumes), nuts and fish, and minimizing trans-fatty acids, sugar, dairy products and other animal protein. They also took vitamin D supplements. The other half ate their usual diet. Both groups were instructed not to use dental floss or other means of cleaning between the teeth.AdvertisementSupported by The agreement, negotiated with the state of Oklahoma, will allow the maker of OxyContin to avoid a televised courtroom trial. By Jan HoffmanPurdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin, and its owners, the Sackler family, agreed to pay $270 million to avoid going to a state court trial over the company’s role in the opioid addiction epidemic that has killed more than 200,000 Americans over the past two decades.The payment, negotiated to settle a case brought by the state of Oklahoma, was far larger than two previous settlements Purdue Pharma had reached with other states. It could jolt other settlement talks with the company, including those in a consolidated collection of 1600 cases overseen by a federal judge in Cleveland.“Purdue appears to have concluded that it was less risky to settle the Oklahoma case than have the allegations publicly aired against it during a televised trial and face exposure to what could have been an astronomical jury verdict,” said Abbe R. Gluck, a professor at Yale Law School who directs the Solomon Center for Health Policy and Law. “That said,” she continued, “the settlement does put a stake in the ground for the other cases. It telegraphs what these cases might be worth and makes the elephant in the room even larger — namely, do Purdue and the Sacklers have sufficient funds to give fair payouts in the 1600-plus cases that remain?”In a statement released after the settlement announcement, Purdue Pharma’s chief executive, Dr. Craig Landau, said: “Purdue is very pleased to have reached an agreement with Oklahoma that will help those who are battling addiction now and in the future.” While numerous other drug manufacturers, distributors and pharmacy chains have been targets of lawsuits, Purdue, in particular, has been painted as the arch-villain of the opioid disaster, and the company has been feeling exceptional heat in recent months. Not only was the company staring down an impending trial date of May 28 in Oklahoma, with cameras in the courtroom, but documents made public recently in a case brought by the state of Massachusetts accused Sackler family members of directing efforts to mislead the public about OxyContin’s potency and addictive properties. A number of museums and cultural institutions around the world have recently stopped taking donations from the Sacklers, who have a long record of philanthropy. As headlines mounted, the company began exploring the possibility of filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy restructuring, a step that could temporarily insulate it from big judgments. While it has yet to decide, the possibility of bankruptcy exerted powerful leverage at the bargaining table in Oklahoma, people familiar with the negotiations said.Once a company files for Chapter 11 protection, only secured creditors, such as banks, can expect to be repaid in full. While an Oklahoma jury could potentially have hit Purdue with a stratospheric civil judgment, the likelihood of the state collecting even a significant portion from bankruptcy court — never mind how much appellate courts would reduce the award — would be remote and at some point far in the future. Legal experts said the settlement amounts to a bird-in-the-hand decision.Legal experts said similar calculations could come into play in the 35 other state cases still pending against Purdue, as well as in the federal litigation, which combines 1600 suits brought by cities, counties, Native American tribes and others. “There is blood in the water now, and with the threat of bankruptcy, the concern is that counties and states may settle on the cheap early to avoid getting little to nothing later on,” said Elizabeth Chamblee Burch, a law professor at the University of Georgia.At a news conference Tuesday in Tulsa, Mike Hunter, the Oklahoma state attorney general, said that as part of the settlement agreement, Purdue’s payment to the state had been secured against any possible bankruptcy filing.“The addiction crisis facing our state and nation is a clear and present danger,” Mr. Hunter said. “Last year alone, out of the more than 3,000 Oklahomans admitted to the hospital for a nonfatal overdose, 80 percent involved a prescription opioid medication. Additionally, nearly 50 percent of Oklahomans who died from a drug overdose in 2018 were attributed to a pharmaceutical drug. Deploying the money from this settlement immediately allows us to decisively treat addiction illness and save lives.”Lawyers for the plaintiffs in the federal litigation, while quick to praise Oklahoma’s settlement, underscored that a resolution with Purdue hardly represented a broad settlement with the numerous companies involved in making, distributing and selling opioid painkillers.“There are nearly two dozen other defendants with pending allegations against them in federal court, “ the executive committee of the plaintiffs’ lawyers said in a statement. “We believe all of these defendants — opioid manufacturers, distributors, and pharmacies — must be held responsible for their role in the epidemic, and we will continue to pursue accountability for the thousands of communities we represent.”According to details of the agreement announced Tuesday by Mr. Hunter, more than than $100 million will go to fund a new addiction treatment and research center at Oklahoma State University in Tulsa. The Sacklers, who were not named in the lawsuit, will contribute an additional $75 million over five years to the center.“While the agreement announced today is not a financial model for future settlement discussions, the establishment of the National Center is a unique and important step that we hope will save lives, by creating breakthrough innovations in the prevention and treatment of addiction, and point towards how we can achieve a national resolution,” the Sackler family said in a statement.The statement added: “We also want to make clear that the recent attacks on our family are not accurate and misdirect attention away from crucial issues such as the terrifying rise in illicit fentanyl overdoses.”The new center, to be named the National Center for Addiction Studies and Treatment, will be housed at the university’s Center for Wellness and Recovery, which has a current annual budget of only about $2.4 million.About $60 million of the settlement money will be set aside to reimburse the state for litigation costs, and $12.5 million will be given to municipalities and counties to address their costs for the epidemic. The package also includes $20 million in medicine for addiction treatment. (The Food and Drug Administration recently granted Purdue a fast track designation to develop an emergency opioid overdose treatment injection, which the company pledged not to profit from.) Public health experts cautiously welcomed the agreement. “It will certainly be addressing the harms caused by the company, “ said Dr. Joshua M. Sharfstein, a professor of public health policy at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. “It creates an opportunity not just to improve treatment right on the university’s site, but to expand access to lifesaving medications across the region, “ he said.So far, the trial, which includes other pharmaceutical companies such as Johnson & Johnson, is on track to begin May 28. On Monday, the Oklahoma Supreme Court turned aside a bid by the defendants to delay the start by 100 days.  Whether other defendants will settle before then is unclear. Unlike many opioid lawsuits, which have pulled in an array of defendants, including distributors and pharmacy chains, Oklahoma’s case, filed in June, 2017, focused only on manufacturers. There were essentially three major pharmaceutical groups, including Purdue Pharma and its subsidiaries, Teva Pharmaceuticals, the Israeli-based company that mostly makes generic forms of opioids, and Johnson & Johnson.Johnson & Johnson, which makes Duragesic, a fentanyl skin patch, has long had a reputation for being willing to risk jury trials, notably in cases involving the antipsychotic drug Risperdal and, this week, Xarelto, the blood thinner medication. With its co-defendant, Bayer, Johnson & Johnson prevailed in six jury trials over Xarelto, before it agreed to settle.AdvertisementSupported bythe new old ageIn older patients, rigorous lowering of blood sugar may offer few benefits and pose unexpected risks. By Paula SpanVisit after visit, Dr. Pei Chen hoped to persuade a patient with Type 2 diabetes to allow her blood sugar levels to rise. Yes, rise.The woman, who was 84 when she first came to the geriatric clinic at the University of California, San Francisco, had been coping with the disease for decades, following a complex regimen of frequent finger sticks and daily injections involving two types of insulin.Geriatricians often encourage older and frailer patients with diabetes to ease up on efforts to achieve very low blood sugar levels (an approach called “de-intensification”), pointing out that the balance between benefits and risks shifts with age and illness.You might think those patients would be delighted to take less medication and maybe enjoy the occasional cookie. But older people with diabetes often have long histories of striving to keep their hemoglobin A1c levels (a two- or three-month average measuring blood sugar control) below the once-standard 7 percent.So they may respond the way this patient did. “She said, ‘I’ve been doing this for 25 years,’” recalled Dr. Chen, a geriatrician. “‘You don’t need to tell me what to do. I can handle it.’”The patient stuck with her routine and kept her A1c and glucose levels very low, an impasse that lasted until her kidneys began to fail, a common complication of diabetes. The metabolic changes of kidney failure, along with her high insulin doses, reduced her blood sugar so severely that she began experiencing frequent episodes of hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar.“She was feeling lightheaded and nauseated, sweaty,” Dr. Chen said. Hypoglycemia also increases the risks of falls and fractures. Only at that point did the patient, then 87, agree to relax her insistence on strict control.About a third of Americans over age 65 have diabetes; last month, the Endocrine Society unveiled new guidelines for their treatment.Its recommendations included higher glucose and A1c targets for older people with diabetes, particularly those with several other chronic illnesses and cognitive impairment, or those having difficulty handling daily activities.“This is personalized medicine, taking each patient individually and deciding what’s appropriate,” said Dr. Derek LeRoith, who led the committee that reviewed the evidence and prepared the guidelines. “You can have a 75-year-old who is healthy and can deal with tight control, but that’s probably the minority.”In recent years, a number of medical groups have advocated more moderate blood sugar targets for older patients, including the American Geriatrics Society, the American College of Physicians, the American Diabetes Association and the Veterans Affairs medical system.Having the Endocrine Society also weigh in — its membership includes most endocrinologists treating patients in the United States — may help spread the word.“It’s important in shifting the thinking that lower is always better,” said Dr. Kasia Lipska, an endocrinologist at the Yale School of Medicine. Her research has shown that overtreatment remains common in older diabetics, most of whom see primary care doctors for their diabetes care.To be clear, none of these groups advises ignoring high blood sugar at older ages. Diabetes can lead to grim complications, from heart attacks and strokes to blindness and amputations. It’s also associated with cognitive decline.With lengthening life spans, said Dr. LeRoith, “we know that 70- to 75-year-olds can live for 10 years or longer” and reduced blood sugar may help lower their risk of complications. But, he added, “one should go very slowly with this age group.”Age and life expectancy matter in diabetes treatment because of the so-called time to benefit. “You need to control blood sugar for five to 10 years before you see real benefits, like reducing the risk of amputation or the need for dialysis,” Dr. Lipska said.On the other hand, the harms that can accompany treatment show up right away — “primarily hypoglycemia, but also the risks of polypharmacy, more drugs, more chance for error and more expense,” Dr. Lipska said. “They have immediate impact on how people feel and function.”That’s why the Endocrine Society guidelines and others recommend lower blood glucose levels and hemoglobin A1c ranges for older adults in good health, but higher targets for those with other illnesses and limited life expectancies. They likely won’t survive long enough to benefit from strict glycemic control; in the meantime, it could hurt them.The Endocrine Society suggests an A1c from 7 to 7.5 percent for the healthiest older people, depending on whether they’re taking drugs that can cause hypoglycemia. The ranges increase to 7.5 to 8 percent for those with several chronic illnesses or with early dementia and other impairments, and to 8 to 8.5 percent for those in poor health. The last category includes those with end-stage diseases or moderate to severe dementia, as well as nursing home residents.The guidelines emphasize, however, that reasonable A1c and glucose ranges can vary for individual patients.Those targets still seem too low to some proponents of moderate glycemic control, like Dr. Sei Lee, a geriatrician at U.C.S.F.Dr. Lee, a diabetes treatment researcher, helped draft the American Geriatrics Society’s “Choosing Wisely” recommendations, which suggested a higher A1c of 8 to 9 percent for those with multiple illnesses and shorter life expectancies.Over all, however, he approves of the Endocrine Society recommendations. “They’re absolutely a step in the right direction, an improvement,” he said.He thinks the society’s 40-page document overemphasizes so-called pre-diabetes, in which people have elevated blood sugar that’s not high enough for a diabetes diagnosis. It’s been a contentious topic.“I worry we’re over-medicalizing, especially for someone in their 80s,” Dr. Lee said. “They usually have plenty of other conditions to worry about.”But he appreciates the society’s suggestion that instead of following strict diabetic diets, older patients with diabetes should eat healthily and limit simple sugars.“Especially in a nursing home, the range of joys of life gets narrower, and food is one that remains,” said Dr. Lee. Pushing a restrictive diet simply to lower blood glucose readings can make older people miserable without measurably improving their health.De-intensification for older diabetics has gained traction only slowly — “a lost opportunity to reduce overtreatment,” a 2015 study in JAMA Internal Medicine reported.So “patients should be pushing their physicians on this issue,” Dr. LeRoith said.Managing diabetes takes considerable work; it’s not surprising that patients who’ve spent years achieving low blood sugar might be reluctant to lessen their vigilance.“We’ve built a system where they feel good or bad about themselves based on a single number,” Dr. Lipska said.AdvertisementSupported byDeadly germs, Lost curesThe rise of Candida auris embodies a serious and growing public health threat: drug-resistant germs.By Matt Richtel and Andrew JacobsLast May, an elderly man was admitted to the Brooklyn branch of Mount Sinai Hospital for abdominal surgery. A blood test revealed that he was infected with a newly discovered germ as deadly as it was mysterious. Doctors swiftly isolated him in the intensive care unit.The germ, a fungus called Candida auris, preys on people with weakened immune systems, and it is quietly spreading across the globe. Over the last five years, it has hit a neonatal unit in Venezuela, swept through a hospital in Spain, forced a prestigious British medical center to shut down its intensive care unit, and taken root in India, Pakistan and South Africa.Recently C. auris reached New York, New Jersey and Illinois, leading the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to add it to a list of germs deemed “urgent threats.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The man at Mount Sinai died after 90 days in the hospital, but C. auris did not. Tests showed it was everywhere in his room, so invasive that the hospital needed special cleaning equipment and had to rip out some of the ceiling and floor tiles to eradicate it.“Everything was positive — the walls, the bed, the doors, the curtains, the phones, the sink, the whiteboard, the poles, the pump,” said Dr. Scott Lorin, the hospital’s president. “The mattress, the bed rails, the canister holes, the window shades, the ceiling, everything in the room was positive.”C. auris is so tenacious, in part, because it is impervious to major antifungal medications, making it a new example of one of the world’s most intractable health threats: the rise of drug-resistant infections.For decades, public health experts have warned that the overuse of antibiotics was reducing the effectiveness of drugs that have lengthened life spans by curing bacterial infections once commonly fatal. But lately, there has been an explosion of resistant fungi as well, adding a new and frightening dimension to a phenomenon that is undermining a pillar of modern medicine.“It’s an enormous problem,” said Matthew Fisher, a professor of fungal epidemiology at Imperial College London, who was a co-author of a recent scientific review on the rise of resistant fungi. “We depend on being able to treat those patients with antifungals.”Simply put, fungi, just like bacteria, are evolving defenses to survive modern medicines.Yet even as world health leaders have pleaded for more restraint in prescribing antimicrobial drugs to combat bacteria and fungi — convening the United Nations General Assembly in 2016 to manage an emerging crisis — gluttonous overuse of them in hospitals, clinics and farming has continued.Resistant germs are often called “superbugs,” but this is simplistic because they don’t typically kill everyone. Instead, they are most lethal to people with immature or compromised immune systems, including newborns and the elderly, smokers, diabetics and people with autoimmune disorders who take steroids that suppress the body’s defenses.Scientists say that unless more effective new medicines are developed and unnecessary use of antimicrobial drugs is sharply curbed, risk will spread to healthier populations. A study the British government funded projects that if policies are not put in place to slow the rise of drug resistance, 10 million people could die worldwide of all such infections in 2050, eclipsing the eight million expected to die that year from cancer.In the United States, two million people contract resistant infections annually, and 23,000 die from them, according to the official C.D.C. estimate. That number was based on 2010 figures; more recent estimates from researchers at Washington University School of Medicine put the death toll at 162,000. Worldwide fatalities from resistant infections are estimated at 700,000.Antibiotics and antifungals are both essential to combat infections in people, but antibiotics are also used widely to prevent disease in farm animals, and antifungals are also applied to prevent agricultural plants from rotting. Some scientists cite evidence that rampant use of fungicides on crops is contributing to the surge in drug-resistant fungi infecting humans.Yet as the problem grows, it is little understood by the public — in part because the very existence of resistant infections is often cloaked in secrecy.With bacteria and fungi alike, hospitals and local governments are reluctant to disclose outbreaks for fear of being seen as infection hubs. Even the C.D.C., under its agreement with states, is not allowed to make public the location or name of hospitals involved in outbreaks. State governments have in many cases declined to publicly share information beyond acknowledging that they have had cases.All the while, the germs are easily spread — carried on hands and equipment inside hospitals; ferried on meat and manure-fertilized vegetables from farms; transported across borders by travelers and on exports and imports; and transferred by patients from nursing home to hospital and back.C. auris, which infected the man at Mount Sinai, is one of dozens of dangerous bacteria and fungi that have developed resistance. Other prominent strains of the fungus Candida — one of the most common causes of bloodstream infections in hospitals — have not developed significant resistance to drugs, but more than 90 percent of C. auris infections are resistant to at least one drug, and 30 percent are resistant to two or more drugs, the C.D.C. said.Dr. Lynn Sosa, Connecticut’s deputy state epidemiologist, said she now saw C. auris as “the top” threat among resistant infections. “It’s pretty much unbeatable and difficult to identify,” she said.Nearly half of patients who contract C. auris die within 90 days, according to the C.D.C. Yet the world’s experts have not nailed down where it came from in the first place.“It is a creature from the black lagoon,” said Dr. Tom Chiller, who heads the fungal branch at the C.D.C., which is spearheading a global detective effort to find treatments and stop the spread. “It bubbled up and now it is everywhere.”A deadly, drug-resistant fungus is infecting patients in hospitals and nursing homes around the world. The fungus seems to have emerged in several locations at once, not from a single source.EUROPEThe first large outbreak in Europe involved 72 cases in a London hospital in 2015–16.COUNTRIES WITHMultiple cases of Candida auris infectionOne reported caseBRITAINRUSSIACANADAFRANCEGERMANYUNITEDSTATESUNITED STATESThe country has had at least 587 Candida auris infections since 2013.SPAINJAPANCHINAISRAELKUWAITPAKISTANSOUTHKOREASAUDIARABIAINDIAOMANPANAMAVENEZUELASINGAPORECOLOMBIAKENYAINDIA AND PAKISTANThe two countries have some of the highest case counts in the world. A distinct strain appeared in Pakistan as early as 2008 and in Delhi by 2009.CENTRAL ANDSOUTH AMERICAThe first documented outbreak in the Americas was from 2012–13 at a medical center in Venezuela. Five of 18 infected patients died.AUSTRALIASOUTHAFRICASOUTH AFRICAA genetically distinct strain of Candida auris in South Africa infected at least 451 patients from 2012–16.JAPANCandida auris (left) was discovered in 2009 in the infected ear of a 70-year-old Japanese woman.CandidaaurisCOUNTRIES WITHEUROPEThe first large outbreak in Europe involved 72 cases in a London hospital in 2015–16.Multiple cases of Candida auris infectionOne reported caseBRITAINRUSSIACANADAFRANCEGERMANYSOUTHKOREAUNITEDSTATESUNITED STATESThe country has had at least 587 Candida auris infections since 2013.SPAINJAPANCHINAISRAELKUWAITPAKISTANSAUDIARABIAINDIAOMANVENEZUELAPANAMASINGAPORECOLOMBIAKENYACENTRAL ANDSOUTH AMERICAThe first documented outbreak in the Americas was from 2012–13 at a medical center in Venezuela. Five of 18 infected patients died.INDIA AND PAKISTANThe two countries have some of the highest case counts in the world. A distinct strain appeared in Pakistan as early as 2008 and in Delhi by 2009.AUSTRALIASOUTHAFRICASOUTH AFRICAA genetically distinct strain of Candida auris in South Africa infected at least 451 patients from 2012–16.JAPANCandida auris (left) was discovered in 2009 in the infected ear of a 70-year-old Japanese woman.CandidaaurisCOUNTRIES WITHMultiple cases of Candida auris infectionEUROPEThe first large outbreak in Europe involved 72 cases in a London hospital in 2015–16.One reported caseRUSSIACANADAUNITED STATESThe country has had at least 587 Candida auris infections since 2013.SOUTHKOREAUNITEDSTATESCHINAPAKISTANJAPANINDIABRITAININDIA AND PAKISTANThe two countries have some of the highest case counts in the world. A distinct strain appeared in Pakistan as early as 2008 and in Delhi by 2009.VENEZUELAPANAMAGERMANYFRANCECOLOMBIASPAINISRAELCENTRAL ANDSOUTH AMERICAThe first documented outbreak in the Americas was from 2012–13 at a medical center in Venezuela. Five of 18 infected patients died.KUWAITSAUDIARABIAOMANAUSTRALIAKENYASOUTH AFRICAA genetically distinct strain of Candida auris in South Africa infected at least 451 patients from 2012–16.JAPANCandida auris (left) was discovered in 2009 in the infected ear of a 70-year-old Japanese woman. SOUTHAFRICACOUNTRIES WITHMultiple cases of Candida auris infectionOne reported caseCANADAUNITED STATESThe country has had at least 587 Candida auris infections since 2013.UNITEDSTATESVENEZUELAPANAMACOLOMBIAEUROPEThe first large outbreak in Europe involved 72 cases in a London hospital in 2015–16.CENTRAL ANDSOUTH AMERICAThe first documented outbreak in the Americas was from 2012–13 at a medical center in Venezuela. Five of 18 infected patients died.BRITAINFRANCEGERMANYSPAINISRAELKUWAITSAUDIARABIAOMANKENYASOUTH AFRICAA genetically distinct strain of Candida auris in South Africa infected at least 451 patients from 2012–16.SOUTHAFRICARUSSIAJAPANCHINAPAKISTANSOUTHKOREAINDIA AND PAKISTANThe two countries have some of the highest case counts in the world. A distinct strain appeared in Pakistan as early as 2008 and in Delhi by 2009.INDIASINGAPORECHINAA study of a Shenyang hospital found 15 samples from 2011–17 that were misidentified as a different strain of fungus. Candida auris is hard to identify and may unreported in other hospitals around the world.JAPANCandida auris was discovered in 2009 in the infected ear of a 70-year-old Japanese woman.AUSTRALIACOUNTRIES WITHMultiple cases of Candida auris infectionOne reported caseUNITED STATESThe country has had at least 587 Candida auris infections since 2013.CANADAUNITEDSTATESPANAMAVENEZUELACOLOMBIACENTRAL ANDSOUTH AMERICAThe first documented outbreak in the Americas was from 2012–13 at a medical center in Venezuela. Five of 18 infected patients died.EUROPEThe first large outbreak in Europe involved 72 cases in a London hospital in 2015–16.BRITAINGERMANYFRANCESPAINISRAELKUWAITSAUDIARABIAOMANSOUTH AFRICAA genetically distinct strain of Candida auris in South Africa infected at least 451 patients from 2012–16.KENYASOUTHAFRICAINDIA AND PAKISTANThe two countries have some of the highest case counts in the world. A distinct strain appeared in Pakistan as early as 2008 and in Delhi by 2009.RUSSIAJAPANCHINAPAKISTANSOUTHKOREAINDIASINGAPOREJAPANCandida auris was discovered in 2009 in the infected ear of a 70-year-old Japanese woman.AUSTRALIACOUNTRIES WITHMultiple cases of Candida aurisinfectionOne reported caseCANADAUNITEDSTATESUNITED STATESThe country has had at least 587 Candida auris infections since 2013.PANAMAVENEZUELACOLOMBIACENTRAL ANDSOUTH AMERICAThe first documented outbreak in the Americas was at a medical center in Venezuela from 2012–13.EUROPEThe first large outbreak in Europe involved 72 cases in a London hospital in 2015–16.BRITAINGERMANYFRANCESPAINISRAELKUWAITSAUDIARABIAOMANKENYASOUTH AFRICAA genetically distinct strain of Candida auris in South Africa infected at least 451 patients from 2012–16.SOUTHAFRICAINDIA AND PAKISTANThe two countries have some of the highest case counts in the world.RUSSIAJAPANCHINAPAKISTANSOUTHKOREAINDIASINGAPOREJAPANCandida auris was discovered in 2009 in the infected ear of a 70-year-old Japanese woman.AUSTRALIABy The New York Times | Sources: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; Emerging Infectious Diseases; Emerging Microbes & Infections; Clinical Infectious Diseases; Journal of Infection; Mycoses; Doherty Institute. Image from Kazuo Satoh et al., Microbiology and ImmunologyIn late 2015, Dr. Johanna Rhodes, an infectious disease expert at Imperial College London, got a panicked call from the Royal Brompton Hospital, a British medical center in London. C. auris had taken root there months earlier, and the hospital couldn’t clear it.“‘We have no idea where it’s coming from. We’ve never heard of it. It’s just spread like wildfire,’” Dr. Rhodes said she was told. She agreed to help the hospital identify the fungus’s genetic profile and clean it from rooms.Under her direction, hospital workers used a special device to spray aerosolized hydrogen peroxide around a room used for a patient with C. auris, the theory being that the vapor would scour each nook and cranny. They left the device going for a week. Then they put a “settle plate” in the middle of the room with a gel at the bottom that would serve as a place for any surviving microbes to grow, Dr. Rhodes said.Only one organism grew back. C. auris.It was spreading, but word of it was not. The hospital, a specialty lung and heart center that draws wealthy patients from the Middle East and around Europe, alerted the British government and told infected patients, but made no public announcement.“There was no need to put out a news release during the outbreak,” said Oliver Wilkinson, a spokesman for the hospital.This hushed panic is playing out in hospitals around the world. Individual institutions and national, state and local governments have been reluctant to publicize outbreaks of resistant infections, arguing there is no point in scaring patients — or prospective ones.Dr. Silke Schelenz, Royal Brompton’s infectious disease specialist, found the lack of urgency from the government and hospital in the early stages of the outbreak “very, very frustrating.”“They obviously didn’t want to lose reputation,” Dr. Schelenz said. “It hadn’t impacted our surgical outcomes.”By the end of June 2016, a scientific paper reported “an ongoing outbreak of 50 C. auris cases” at Royal Brompton, and the hospital took an extraordinary step: It shut down its I.C.U. for 11 days, moving intensive care patients to another floor, again with no announcement.Days later the hospital finally acknowledged to a newspaper that it had a problem. A headline in The Daily Telegraph warned, “Intensive Care Unit Closed After Deadly New Superbug Emerges in the U.K.” (Later research said there were eventually 72 total cases, though some patients were only carriers and were not infected by the fungus.)Yet the issue remained little known internationally, while an even bigger outbreak had begun in Valencia, Spain, at the 992-bed Hospital Universitari i Politècnic La Fe. There, unbeknown to the public or unaffected patients, 372 people were colonized — meaning they had the germ on their body but were not sick with it — and 85 developed bloodstream infections. A paper in the journal Mycoses reported that 41 percent of the infected patients died within 30 days.A statement from the hospital said it was not necessarily C. auris that killed them. “It is very difficult to discern whether patients die from the pathogen or with it, since they are patients with many underlying diseases and in very serious general condition,” the statement said.As with Royal Brompton, the hospital in Spain did not make any public announcement. It still has not.One author of the article in Mycoses, a doctor at the hospital, said in an email that the hospital did not want him to speak to journalists because it “is concerned about the public image of the hospital.”The secrecy infuriates patient advocates, who say people have a right to know if there is an outbreak so they can decide whether to go to a hospital, particularly when dealing with a nonurgent matter, like elective surgery.“Why the heck are we reading about an outbreak almost a year and a half later — and not have it front-page news the day after it happens?” said Dr. Kevin Kavanagh, a physician in Kentucky and board chairman of Health Watch USA, a nonprofit patient advocacy group. “You wouldn’t tolerate this at a restaurant with a food poisoning outbreak.”Health officials say that disclosing outbreaks frightens patients about a situation they can do nothing about, particularly when the risks are unclear.“It’s hard enough with these organisms for health care providers to wrap their heads around it,” said Dr. Anna Yaffee, a former C.D.C. outbreak investigator who dealt with resistant infection outbreaks in Kentucky in which the hospitals were not publicly disclosed. “It’s really impossible to message to the public.”Officials in London did alert the C.D.C. to the Royal Brompton outbreak while it was occurring. And the C.D.C. realized it needed to get the word to American hospitals. On June 24, 2016, the C.D.C. blasted a nationwide warning to hospitals and medical groups and set up an email address, candidaauris@cdc.gov, to field queries. Dr. Snigdha Vallabhaneni, a key member of the fungal team, expected to get a trickle — “maybe a message every month.”Instead, within weeks, her inbox exploded.In the United States, 587 cases of people having contracted C. auris have been reported, concentrated with 309 in New York, 104 in New Jersey and 144 in Illinois, according to the C.D.C.The symptoms — fever, aches and fatigue — are seemingly ordinary, but when a person gets infected, particularly someone already unhealthy, such commonplace symptoms can be fatal.The earliest known case in the United States involved a woman who arrived at a New York hospital on May 6, 2013, seeking care for respiratory failure. She was 61 and from the United Arab Emirates, and she died a week later, after testing positive for the fungus. At the time, the hospital hadn’t thought much of it, but three years later, it sent the case to the C.D.C. after reading the agency’s June 2016 advisory.Most cases in the United States have been in nursing homes in New York City, Chicago and New Jersey.Mass.N.Y.Conn.N.J.Ill.Ind.Md.Calif.Va.Okla.200Tex.100Fla.25Confirmed andprobable cases,2013–191Mass.N.Y.Conn.N.J.Ill.Ind.Md.Calif.Va.Okla.200Tex.100Fla.Confirmed andprobable cases,2013–19251N.Y.N.J.Ill.Md.Ind.Calif.Va.Okla.200Tex.100Fla.25Confirmed and probable cases, 2013–191By The New York Times | Source: Centers for Disease Control and PreventionThis woman probably was not America’s first C. auris patient. She carried a strain different from the South Asian one most common here. It killed a 56-year-old American woman who had traveled to India in March 2017 for elective abdominal surgery, contracted C. auris and was airlifted back to a hospital in Connecticut that officials will not identify. She was later transferred to a Texas hospital, where she died.The germ has spread into long-term care facilities. In Chicago, 50 percent of the residents at some nursing homes have tested positive for it, the C.D.C. has reported. The fungus can grow on intravenous lines and ventilators.Workers who care for patients infected with C. auris worry for their own safety. Dr. Matthew McCarthy, who has treated several C. auris patients at Weill Cornell Medical Center in New York, described experiencing an unusual fear when treating a 30-year-old man.“I found myself not wanting to touch the guy,” he said. “I didn’t want to take it from the guy and bring it to someone else.” He did his job and thoroughly examined the patient, but said, “There was an overwhelming feeling of being terrified of accidentally picking it up on a sock or tie or gown.”As the C.D.C. works to limit the spread of drug-resistant C. auris, its investigators have been trying to answer the vexing question: Where in the world did it come from?The first time doctors encountered C. auris was in the ear of a woman in Japan in 2009 (auris is Latin for ear). It seemed innocuous at the time, a cousin of common, easily treated fungal infections.Three years later, it appeared in an unusual test result in the lab of Dr. Jacques Meis, a microbiologist in Nijmegen, the Netherlands, who was analyzing a bloodstream infection in 18 patients from four hospitals in India. Soon, new clusters of C. auris seemed to emerge with each passing month in different parts of the world.The C.D.C. investigators theorized that C. auris started in Asia and spread across the globe. But when the agency compared the entire genome of auris samples from India and Pakistan, Venezuela, South Africa and Japan, it found that its origin was not a single place, and there was not a single auris strain.The genome sequencing showed that there were four distinctive versions of the fungus, with differences so profound that they suggested that these strains had diverged thousands of years ago and emerged as resistant pathogens from harmless environmental strains in four different places at the same time.“Somehow, it made a jump almost seemingly simultaneously, and seemed to spread and it is drug resistant, which is really mind-boggling,” Dr. Vallabhaneni said.There are different theories as to what happened with C. auris. Dr. Meis, the Dutch researcher, said he believed that drug-resistant fungi were developing thanks to heavy use of fungicides on crops.Dr. Meis became intrigued by resistant fungi when he heard about the case of a 63-year-old patient in the Netherlands who died in 2005 from a fungus called Aspergillus. It proved resistant to a front-line antifungal treatment called itraconazole. That drug is a virtual copy of the azole pesticides that are used to dust crops the world over and account for more than one-third of all fungicide sales.A 2013 paper in Plos Pathogens said that it appeared to be no coincidence that drug-resistant Aspergillus was showing up in the environment where the azole fungicides were used. The fungus appeared in 12 percent of Dutch soil samples, for example, but also in “flower beds, compost, leaves, plant seeds, soil samples of tea gardens, paddy fields, hospital surroundings, and aerial samples of hospitals.”Dr. Meis visited the C.D.C. last summer to share research and theorize that the same thing is happening with C. auris, which is also found in the soil: Azoles have created an environment so hostile that the fungi are evolving, with resistant strains surviving.This is similar to concerns that resistant bacteria are growing because of excessive use of antibiotics in livestock for health and growth promotion. As with antibiotics in farm animals, azoles are used widely on crops.“On everything — potatoes, beans, wheat, anything you can think of, tomatoes, onions,” said Dr. Rhodes, the infectious disease specialist who worked on the London outbreak. “We are driving this with the use of antifungicides on crops.”Dr. Chiller theorizes that C. auris may have benefited from the heavy use of fungicides. His idea is that C. auris actually has existed for thousands of years, hidden in the world’s crevices, a not particularly aggressive bug. But as azoles began destroying more prevalent fungi, an opportunity arrived for C. auris to enter the breach, a germ that had the ability to readily resist fungicides now suitable for a world in which fungi less able to resist are under attack.The mystery of C. auris’s emergence remains unsolved, and its origin seems, for the moment, to be less important than stopping its spread.For now, the uncertainty around C. auris has led to a climate of fear, and sometimes denial.Last spring, Jasmine Cutler, 29, went to visit her 72-year-old father at a hospital in New York City, where he had been admitted because of complications from a surgery the previous month.When she arrived at his room, she discovered that he had been sitting for at least an hour in a recliner, in his own feces, because no one had come when he had called for help to use the bathroom. Ms. Cutler said it became clear to her that the staff was afraid to touch him because a test had shown that he was carrying C. auris.“I saw doctors and nurses looking in the window of his room,” she said. “My father’s not a guinea pig. You’re not going to treat him like a freak at a show.”He was eventually discharged and told he no longer carried the fungus. But he declined to be named, saying he feared being associated with the frightening infection.Ana Harrero contributed reporting from Caracas, Venezuela, and Raphael Minder from Valencia, Spain.Matt Richtel is a best-selling author and Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter based in San Francisco. He joined The Times staff in 2000, and his work has focused on science, technology, business and narrative-driven storytelling around these issues.
   @mrichtel AdvertisementSupported byStrategies abound to end the AIDS epidemic, but expense — mostly for drugs costing up to $50,000 a year — is the inevitable obstacle.By Donald G. McNeil Jr.President Trump’s 2020 budget request of an extra $291 million to fight the spread of H.I.V., experts said on Tuesday, will not be remotely sufficient to meet the goal he announced in his State of the Union address: to nearly eliminate the AIDS epidemic in the United States within 10 years.Mr. Trump’s plan focuses on 48 counties where about half of new infections occur, and seeks to cut the rate of new infections by 90 percent — from about 40,000 a year to about 4,000. Virtually all H.I.V. experts agree that his plan is medically sound. People living with H.I.V. cannot transmit the virus if they are taking a daily triple-therapy drug cocktail. And a two-drug regimen, in a single daily pill known as PrEP, makes it almost impossible to get H.I.V., even through unprotected sex or needle use.But the plan requires a vast two-pronged attack. All Americans with H.I.V. must be found, put on antiretroviral drugs and kept on them for life; and all those at high risk of infection must be put on PrEP for as many years as they are sexually active or using drugs.The cost of doing that will be daunting. About 1.1 million Americans have the virus, and about one million are in danger of getting it. Finding, treating and keeping them all in treatment, experts estimated, could add another $25 billion a year to the $20 billion a year that the federal government, by its own estimates, already spends on H.I.V. prevention and treatment.Calculating the total price is complicated, because so many expenses are tucked into so many budgets. One government agency does vaccine research, another does public education, and many pay for medical care. Mr. Trump’s $291 million is discretionary spending; for example, it would help the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention do more testing and would assist local clinics in reaching more people at risk.But one way or another, the drugs must be paid for, and private insurers will not foot the whole bill. Many of those affected are uninsured or covered under Medicare, Medicaid, the Veterans Affairs department, the Indian Health Service, the Ryan White H.I.V./AIDS Program or other government programs.Mr. Trump’s budget request envisions giving the Ryan White program another $120 million next year — but simultaneously cutting Medicare and Medicaid by more than $2 trillion over 10 years. That’s why Mr. Trump’s attacks on Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act are “so problematic,” said Jeffrey S. Crowley, a director of the White House Office of National AIDS Policy during the Obama administration. Programs like those foot the biggest bills.Over the years, several administrations have announced plans to halt the spread of H.I.V. In 2001, the C.D.C. said it would cut new infections in half within five years. (The rate did not budge.) In 2010, President Obama laid out his strategy, updating it in 2015.The Obama administration did not estimate the strategy’s cost, Mr. Crowley said.But an analysis of it in 2017 by experts at Massachusetts General Hospital concluded that the effort would require an additional $120 billion over 20 years, and that new infections would be cut by only 40 percent during that time.By contrast, Mr. Trump’s plan envisions cutting infections by 90 percent in half that time, noted Dr. Rochelle P. Walensky, the lead author of the Mass General analysis. Mr. Trump’s plan would use PrEP to protect the uninfected, while Mr. Obama’s plan envisioned using only condoms.Because those medications are so expensive, Dr. Walensky estimated that the total additional cost of Mr. Trump’s plan could easily reach $250 billion over a decade.When antiretroviral triple therapy was adopted in 1996, it cost about $20,000 a year. Since then, the Food and Drug Administration has approved 30 antiretroviral drugs and a dozen one-pill combinations. But the price has only gone up. A typical treatment regimen is now as much as $50,000 a year. Truvada, the only pill now approved for H.I.V. prevention, is $20,000 a year.At those prices, the drug bill alone for 2.1 million people would be $75 billion a year.The next biggest item, Dr. Walensky said, would be laboratory testing. Finding most of the 1.1 million infected people in the American population of 325 million would require tens of millions of H.I.V. tests. They cost only $10 each, “but the manpower costs are not trivial,” she said. And various lab tests would cost about $325 per person per year. Doctor’s bills would also mount. Relatively healthy H.I.V. patients cost about $3,600 a year in medical expenses; sick patients needing hospitalization cost $40,000, on average.“Adherence” costs — paying case managers and counselors to track reluctant patients and keep them on their pills, which can even include personally escorting them to medical visits — add about $400 a year per patient.“That’s ballpark,” Dr. Walensky said. “It’s kind of a squirrelly figure.” A representative for the Department of Health and Human Services shown a summary of Dr. Walensky’s cost calculations declined to comment on it.Deep cuts in drug prices “would be a huge win in controlling the epidemic,” Dr. Walensky said, because those savings would cover the counseling, testing, doctor’s visits and other costs. The actual costs of making H.I.V. medications are far lower than their retail prices might suggest.Triple-therapy drug cocktails considered state-of-the-art here as recently as two years ago are now available as generics from India for as little as $72 a year. (American taxpayers buy at those prices for patients in Africa through the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.)Generic versions of Truvada are as little as $50.Even when the sky-high costs in the United States can be covered by one program or another, the paperwork baffles patients. Many, feeling overwhelmed, just drift off and never start on medication.“Every glitch is a chance for the health system to fail,” Mr. Crowley said.Only about a tenth of all Americans who should be on PrEP are on it. In a recent poll of gay men in California, 87 percent said they would take PrEP if it were free; almost 60 percent believed they could not afford it.Clinicians treating H.I.V. patients are frustrated.Dr. Leandro Mena, medical director of Open Arms Healthcare, a Mississippi clinic focused on reaching gay black men in the rural South, argued that “the U.S. should buy the license for PrEP and give it free to every person who needs it.”Legally, the government does not need to buy the license. By law, it can simply take patent licenses away, as it can driving or hunting licenses. Various federal statutes allow officials to do so in return for paying royalties or, sometimes, while paying nothing.That threat can be wielded to pressure a drug company to slash prices, said James P. Love, an expert on patients and director of Knowledge Ecology International, an advocacy group focusing on intellectual property.In 1917, the government exercised this authority against the Wright Brothers to force their company to lower the price of airplanes for the Army and Navy. Today, however, the federal government almost never uses that power. In 2001, during the anthrax scare that followed the World Trade Center attacks, Tommy G. Thompson, the secretary of health and human services, pressured Bayer A.G., which held the patent on Cipro, an antidote to inhaled anthrax, to sharply cut prices. Mr. Thompson threatened to seek congressional permission to import generic ciprofloxacin for the government stockpile. (Alex M. Azar II, the current secretary of health and human services, was the department’s general counsel at the time.)Additionally, government has “march-in rights” under the 1980 Bayh-Dole Act, Mr. Love said, because it paid for much of the original research on Truvada’s component drugs. Those rights allow officials to “march in” and reassign the patent to other manufacturers without compensation if the medicine is needed for government purposes. Behind the scenes, the pharmaceutical lobby is fighting to cancel march-in rights. AdvertisementSupported byBy Cade MetzEach year, millions of Americans walk out of a doctor’s office with a misdiagnosis. Physicians try to be systematic when identifying illness and disease, but bias creeps in. Alternatives are overlooked.Now a group of researchers in the United States and China has tested a potential remedy for all-too-human frailties: artificial intelligence.In a paper published on Monday in Nature Medicine, the scientists reported that they had built a system that automatically diagnoses common childhood conditions — from influenza to meningitis — after processing the patient’s symptoms, history, lab results and other clinical data.The system was highly accurate, the researchers said, and one day may assist doctors in diagnosing complex or rare conditions.Drawing on the records of nearly 600,000 Chinese patients who had visited a pediatric hospital over an 18-month period, the vast collection of data used to train this new system highlights an advantage for China in the worldwide race toward artificial intelligence.Because its population is so large — and because its privacy norms put fewer restrictions on the sharing of digital data — it may be easier for Chinese companies and researchers to build and train the “deep learning” systems that are rapidly changing the trajectory of health care.On Monday, President Trump signed an executive order meant to spur the development of A.I. across government, academia and industry in the United States. As part of this “American A.I. Initiative,” the administration will encourage federal agencies and universities to share data that can drive the development of automated systems.Pooling health care data is a particularly difficult endeavor. Whereas researchers went to a single Chinese hospital for all the data they needed to develop their artificial-intelligence system, gathering such data from American facilities is rarely so straightforward.“You have go to multiple places,” said Dr. George Shih, associate professor of clinical radiology at Weill Cornell Medical Center and co-founder of MD.ai, a company that helps researchers label data for A.I. services. “The equipment is never the same. You have to make sure the data is anonymized. Even if you get permission, it is a massive amount of work.”After reshaping internet services, consumer devices and driverless cars in the early part of the decade, deep learning is moving rapidly into myriad areas of health care. Many organizations, including Google, are developing and testing systems that analyze electronic health records in an effort to flag medical conditions such as osteoporosis, diabetes, hypertension and heart failure.Similar technologies are being built to automatically detect signs of illness and disease in X-rays, M.R.I.s and eye scans.The new system relies on a neural network, a breed of artificial intelligence that is accelerating the development of everything from health care to driverless cars to military applications. A neural network can learn tasks largely on its own by analyzing vast amounts of data.Using the technology, Dr. Kang Zhang, chief of ophthalmic genetics at the University of California, San Diego, has built systems that can analyze eye scans for hemorrhages, lesions and other signs of diabetic blindness. Ideally, such systems would serve as a first line of defense, screening patients and pinpointing those who need further attention.Now Dr. Zhang and his colleagues have created a system that can diagnose an even wider range of conditions by recognizing patterns in text, not just in medical images. This may augment what doctors can do on their own, he said.“In some situations, physicians cannot consider all the possibilities,” he said. “This system can spot-check and make sure the physician didn’t miss anything.”The experimental system analyzed the electronic medical records of nearly 600,000 patients at the Guangzhou Women and Children’s Medical Center in southern China, learning to associate common medical conditions with specific patient information gathered by doctors, nurses and other technicians.First, a group of trained physicians annotated the hospital records, adding labels that identified information related to certain medical conditions. The system then analyzed the labeled data.Then the neural network was given new information, including a patient’s symptoms as determined during a physical examination. Soon it was able to make connections on its own between written records and observed symptoms.When tested on unlabeled data, the software could rival the performance of experienced physicians. It was more than 90 percent accurate at diagnosing asthma; the accuracy of physicians in the study ranged from 80 to 94 percent.In diagnosing gastrointestinal disease, the system was 87 percent accurate, compared with the physicians’ accuracy of 82 to 90 percent.Able to recognize patterns in data that humans could never identify on their own, neural networks can be enormously powerful in the right situation. But even experts have difficulty understanding why such networks make particular decisions and how they teach themselves.As a result, extensive testing is needed to reassure both doctors and patients that these systems are reliable.Experts said extensive clinical trials are now needed for Dr. Zhang’s system, given the difficulty of interpreting decisions made by neural networks.“Medicine is a slow-moving field,” said Ben Shickel, a researcher at the University of Florida who specializes in the use of deep learning for health care. “No one is just going to deploy one of these techniques without rigorous testing that shows exactly what is going on.”It could be years before deep-learning systems are deployed in emergency rooms and clinics. But some are closer to real-world use: Google is now running clinical trials of its eye-scan system at two hospitals in southern India.Deep-learning diagnostic tools are more likely to flourish in countries outside the United States, Dr. Zhang said. Automated screening systems may be particularly useful in places where doctors are scarce, including in India and China.The system built by Dr. Zhang and his colleagues benefited from the large scale of the data set gathered from the hospital in Guangzhou. Similar data sets from American hospitals are typically smaller, both because the average hospital is smaller and because regulations make it difficult to pool data from multiple facilities.Dr. Zhang said he and his colleagues were careful to protect patients’ privacy in the new study. But he acknowledged that researchers in China may have an advantage when it comes to collecting and analyzing this kind of data.“The sheer size of the population — the sheer size of the data — is a big difference,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byA yearlong, randomized trial in England showed that e-cigarettes were almost twice as successful as products like patches or gum for smoking cessation. By Jan HoffmanIt has been one of the most pressing unanswered questions in public health: Do e-cigarettes actually help smokers quit? Now, the first, large rigorous assessment offers an unequivocal answer: yes.The study, published Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine, found that e-cigarettes were nearly twice as effective as conventional nicotine replacement products, like patches and gum, for quitting smoking. The success rate was still low — 18 percent among the e-cigarette group, compared to 9.9 percent among those using traditional nicotine replacement therapy — but many researchers who study tobacco and nicotine said it gave them the clear evidence they had been looking for.“This is a seminal study,” said Dr. Neal L. Benowitz, chief of clinical pharmacology at the University of California, San Francisco, an expert in nicotine absorption and tobacco-related illnesses, who was not involved in the project. “It is so important to the field.”The study was conducted in Britain and funded by the National Institute for Health Research and Cancer Research UK. For a year, it followed 886 smokers assigned randomly to use either e-cigarettes or traditional nicotine replacement therapies. Both groups also participated in at least four weekly counseling sessions, an element regarded as critical for success.The findings could give some new legitimacy to e-cigarette companies like Juul, which have been under fire from the government and the public for contributing to what the Food and Drug Administration has called an epidemic of vaping among teenagers. But they could also exacerbate the difficulty of keeping the devices away from young people who have never smoked while making them available for clinical use.“There is an unavoidable tension between protecting kids from e-cigarettes and smoking cessation, which is also very important,” Dr. Benowitz said.Tobacco use causes nearly 6 million deaths worldwide each year, including 480,000 in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. If tobacco use trends continue, the global death tally is projected to reach 8 million deaths annually by 2030.E-cigarettes provide the nicotine smokers crave without the toxic tar and carcinogens that come from inhaling burning tobacco. But regulators in the United States, Britain and elsewhere have not approved them to be marketed as smoking cessation tools.“Health professionals have been reluctant to recommend their use because of the lack of clear evidence from randomized controlled trials. This is now likely to change,” said Peter Hajek, the lead author of the study and a professor of clinical psychology at Queen Mary University of London, which coordinated the clinical trials through public “stop-smoking clinics.” The New England Journal devoted much of its current issue to e-cigarettes, publishing two editorials and a letter, and the collection embodies the tangled public health debate over the devices. One editorial — written by Belinda Borrelli, a behavioral health expert and Dr. George T. O’Connor, a pulmonologist — pumped the brakes on inclinations to embrace e-cigarettes. They noted that 80 percent of the study participants who had quit by using e-cigarettes were still vaping at one year, while only nine percent of the nicotine replacement therapy group was still using nicotine products. That raised concerns, they wrote, about sustained nicotine addiction and the unknown health consequences of long-term e-cigarette use.The editorial recommended that e-cigarettes be taken up when other cessation approaches, including behavioral counseling, have failed; that patients use the lowest dose of nicotine possible; that health care providers establish a clear timeline for e-cigarette use.Another editorial implored the Food and Drug Administration to ban all nicotine flavors for vaping devices because of their appeal to adolescents.The clinical trial took place from May 2015 to February 2018. Because the smokers were recruited at the clinics, they were already predisposed to quitting, a feather on the scale that could slightly have affected results. The participants were typically middle-aged, smoked between half a pack and a pack a day and had already tried quitting.  The e-cigarette subjects were given a starter kit with a refillable device and one bottle of tobacco-flavored nicotine e-liquid, with 18 milligrams per milliliter — the most common product in England.(At the time, Juul, the top seller in the United States, was not available in England. Juul has much higher nicotine concentrations — either 59 milligrams or 35 milligrams.)All the participants had individual latitude within their study groups to closely approximate real-life scenarios. When the vapers finished their bottle of nicotine liquid, they could choose whichever flavor and nicotine strength to purchase.The people using nicotine replacement therapy could select from an array of products, including the patch, gum, lozenge and nasal spray. They were even encouraged to combine them; most did so, typically opting for the patch and an oral therapy.Because self-reports of smoking abstinence are not considered reliable, researchers measured the quantities of carbon monoxide in the participants’ breath, a more precise validation.Dr. Maciej Goniewicz, a co-author of the British study who is now a pharmacologist at the Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center in Buffalo, N.Y., said that the success of the e-cigarettes most likely reflects a combination of factors: “It’s about the method of delivery, the quantity of nicotine and the user’s behavior,” he said. “E-cigarettes have the advantage that the user decides how and when to puff. Nicotine replacement therapy products have specific instructions, which are different for different products.”Dr. Benowitz noted that the higher quit rates and compliance among e-cigarette users could be additionally explained because those subjects expressed more satisfaction with the devices than did the other group with their products.In their editorial, Drs. Borrelli and O’Connor pointed to other research on smoking cessation therapies: In one study nicotine-replacement therapy and the antidepressant buproprion (Wellbutrin) achieved slightly higher abstinence rates than did e-cigarettes in this latest trial. The prescription drug varenicline (Chantix) has performed even moderately better. Moreover, these products have been proven safe, they said.Particularly for American vapers who have embraced the e-cigarette Juul, with its higher levels of nicotine, one outstanding question is whether such a product would be even more effective at smoking cessation.Some researchers hypothesize that because a body takes in only the amount of nicotine it needs to maintain a certain level, high-nicotine products like Juul could have the advantage of delivering that power punch with fewer puffs, decreasing the amount of harmful aerosol a vaper would inhale. But Risa Robinson, a professor of mechanical engineering and director of respiratory technology at Rochester Institute of Technology, expressed worries about emerging studies showing harmful effects of nicotine.Such worries prompted a letter published in the same journal about teenage vaping in Colorado, which led the country in underage use in 2017.Global healthA hand-held device brings medical imaging to remote communities, often for the first time. Rodgers Ssekawoko Muhumuza, left, checked Owamani Bruce for pneumonia with a portable ultrasound scanner in the Kabale district in western Uganda.CreditCreditSupported byBy Donald G. McNeil Jr.Photographs by Esther Ruth MbabaziBUSHORO, Uganda — Lying on a church pew with his arm over his head, 6-year-old Gordon Andindagaye whimpered a bit — in fear, not pain — as Dr. William A. Cherniak slowly swept a small ultrasound scanner up and down his chest.Dr. Cherniak and Rodgers Ssekawoko Muhumuza, the Ugandan clinical officer he was training, stared at the iPhone into which the scanner was plugged, watching Gordon’s lung expand and contract.“O.K.,” Dr. Cherniak finally said. “What do you recommend?”Gordon had a persistent cough and swollen lymph nodes, and looked tired and unwell. As other boys ran around outside, kicking a soccer ball made of rags and twine, he clung weakly to his mother. The scan on the iPhone’s screen suggested his lungs had fluid in them.As Dr. Cherniak nodded approval, Mr. Muhumuza prescribed an antibiotic, and ordered blood tests to rule out tuberculosis, malaria and H.I.V. He arranged for Gordon and his mother to get a ride to a local clinic for an X-ray and a night of observation.Dr. Cherniak, an emergency medicine specialist from Canada, said he would upload the scan that evening so an ultrasound specialist in Toronto could double-check the diagnosis: early-stage pneumonia.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The diagnosis was made possible by a new invention that Dr. Cherniak hopes will revolutionize front-line global medicine: a hand-held ultrasound scanner called the Butterfly iQ.The Butterfly is about the size of an electric shaver. It is battery-powered and contains microchips rather than piezoelectric crystals, so it usually won’t break if dropped. (That was accidentally tested a few times during a week that a reporter spent in rural Uganda with Dr. Cherniak’s team.)For Butterfly Network, the Connecticut company that makes it, the profitable target customers are doctors and nurses who can afford a $2,000 device that fits in a coat pocket and is as portable as a stethoscope.But the scanner also has huge potential in rural Africa, Asia and Latin America, where the nearest X-ray machine may be hours away and the only CT and MRI scanners may be in the nation’s capital.“That was my real motivation for making it,” said Jonathan Rothberg, Butterfly’s founder, who initially pursued the goal because one of his daughters had a disease that caused kidney cysts needing regular scans. “Two-thirds of the world’s population gets no imaging at all,” he added. “When you put something on a chip, the price goes down and you democratize it.”The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is one of his backers, as are the investment arms of other family philanthropies.“My team is engineers and computer scientists,” he said. “We’d love to be able to save lives the way doctors do, but we can’t — so every tweet from Africa about the Butterfly is an incredible adrenaline shot for us.”He has donated scanners to medical charities working in 13 low-income countries, seven of them in Africa. Several went to Bridge to Health, a Canadian charity that Dr. Cherniak founded six years ago; it works closely with Kihefo, a medical charity based in western Uganda.For now, the scanners are primarily used to check for pneumonia, which is a major killer of children in poor countries and is frequently misdiagnosed. But Dr. Cherniak’s team has found other fascinating uses for the devices — which they deployed under conditions almost as stark and dusty as those found in battlefield medicine.Kihefo runs what might be described as a traveling medical circus. Each day at dawn, its roustabouts drive a truck loaded with collapsible tents into a different village and erect them on whatever flat ground they find — perhaps a patch of goat-gnawed grass between the school and the church.To improvise examination tables, they borrow the wooden school desks and church pews, pad them with yoga mats and screen them with thin purple curtains.An hour later, the Canadian-Ugandan “brigade” rolls in — vans full of doctors, nurses, dentists, chiropractors, gynecologists, ophthalmologists and pharmacists, accompanied by local clinical officers and medical students, all toting huge bags of equipment. (Yes, hockey bags — it’s a Canadian charity.)While the dental team fills cavities and the ophthalmologists check eyes, the medical team sees one patient after another, from newborns to nonagenarians.On a recent visit to this village, the doctors used their Butterflies not just to screen for pneumonia, but to scan other organs. Checking a large goiter on the neck of a 42-year-old woman, they learned that it was pressing on her windpipe, meaning she would soon need surgery, even though she had no breathing problems yet.They scanned the lungs of a frighteningly emaciated baby to see if she had tuberculosis. They scanned the swollen testicle of a 54-year-old man and determined that he probably had cancer rather than their first tentative diagnosis — fluid draining from worm-infested lymph glands.Scanning the abdomen of a child with a penis birth defect, they learned that his urine was backing up, threatening him with kidney damage — a problem that a simple operation could correct. They scanned a lump in the chest of a 96-year-old man and concluded that it was probably not cancerous because it lacked blood vessels. Particularly challenging was the case of a 51-year-old woman with a lump on her neck. In part because she described a long history of what sounded like tuberculosis, they initially suspected scrofula.(Scrofula — once called “the King’s Evil” because medieval monarchs claimed to cure it by touch — is caused by TB bacteria clumping under the skin. )“I went to a healer who stabbed me with fire,” the woman said, describing a traditional method for draining an abscess: heating a knife in a fire and plunging it into the lump. It hurt a lot and healed nothing, she said.Scanning the lump, Dr. Cherniak saw that it had veins, meaning it was not an abscess and appeared to be attached to a blood vessel.“See it pulsing away?” he said to his trainee as they looked at his phone. “You don’t want to go anywhere near that. If I did a biopsy, it could bleed a lot. Now I know not to muck around with it and get her to a surgeon.”Some cases remained mysterious. A knotty lump in a 70-year-old woman’s thigh seemed to be neither a tumor, cyst, abscess nor fat deposit. Dr. Cherniak’s best guess was that it was the broken-off tip of a stick she said she had been stabbed with decades earlier.Through a translator, he explained that he could remove it surgically, but the procedure would be painful and the wound might get infected.“It’s like a bullet you leave if it’s safer to not remove it,” he said.She decided to live with it.Even more mystifying was a woman who appeared to be over 70 but whose belly was so swollen that she looked pregnant. Doctor after doctor tried scanning her; the gallons of fluid in her abdomen had shoved her organs far from their customary places. Surprisingly, her liver seemed normal — doctors initially had guessed the swelling resulted from alcoholic cirrhosis. But no one could find her spleen. “What if it’s ALL spleen?” Dr. Cherniak mused. “Could it really get that big?”Various theories — a blocked liver vein, lesions from a sand-fly parasite, a mucus-emitting tumor — were discussed. Finally, all agreed that she needed further scans that only a hospital could do.The Butterfly’s diagnostic potential is enormous, Kihefo’s founder, Dr. Geoffrey Anguyo, said enthusiastically: “But the question is, how much training is adequate?”Learning to interpret the fuzzy black-and-white images on a cellphone screen and recognize all the organs, blood vessels, valves and whatnot inside the body — and to do it well enough to spot tumors and other anomalies — is a skill that can take months to learn.The Gates Foundation, Dr. Rothberg said, is writing software intended to guide untrained users as they scan. For now, Bridge to Health is focusing on teaching Kihefo’s clinical officers, who get up to four years medical training but are not physicians, to diagnose pneumonia.Success will be achieved, Dr. Anguyo and Dr. Cherniak agreed, when the officers’ diagnoses agree with those of the ultrasound specialists in Toronto at least 80 percent of the time.That’s where another aspect of the Butterfly comes in handy: iPhones make it easy to upload scans to the internet.In Gordon’s case, a Canadian reviewer confirmed the diagnosis but said Mr. Muhumuza needed to improve his technique by holding the scanner at a sharper angle and setting it to project sound waves deeper. Five years ago, Bridge to Health and Kihefo jointly pioneered another imaginative use for ultrasound.Knowing how hard it is to convince rural women to visit doctors early in their pregnancies, they acquired some portable briefcase-sized scanners and then aired radio ads announcing where Kihefo would set up next the next morning. “You will be able to see your unborn baby,” they promised.Attendance at their antenatal clinics shot up sixfold, and women who had previously seen only traditional healers began coming in.That was important because doctors could offer many kinds of care. Problems that can kill a mother or baby can be detected and prevented early in pregnancy, including H.I.V., syphilis, vitamin deficiencies and high blood pressure.The success of that program “was how we were able to get support from U.S.A.I.D.,” said Dr. Anguyo, referring to the United States Agency for International Development.“U.S.A.I.D. was looking for unique ways to check women aged 15 to 30 for H.I.V., and we had a very good ‘trap’ for catching those women,” he said.Now, with American grants for the war on AIDS shrinking, Kihefo is hunting for new ways to raise money. One new project, Dr. Anguyo said, helps local farmers switch from raising chickens to raising rabbits. Rabbits eat grass, which costs nothing, so the profit margin is greater than for chickens, which need corn.Kihefo encourages its farmers to eat some rabbits for protein and sell the rest to pay their national health insurance premiums.Better pneumonia diagnosis can also slow the overprescription of antibiotics, which hastens the rise of antibiotic-resistant strains of bacteria.Of the 91 children with fevers and coughs the team scanned in a week, only one in the village — Gordon — had confirmed pneumonia.That, Dr. Cherniak surmised, was probably because modern vaccines against pneumonia-causing bacteria are working well.All the children got antibiotics anyway, because Ugandan national medical protocols require a prescription for every child with high fever and cough. That’s common in poor countries, where it is often impossible to get confirmatory X-rays. (Kihefo’s only X-ray machine, for example, is closed down because the charity cannot afford to build lead walls around it.)Eventually, if ultrasound gains acceptance, the national protocols should change. “If a clinical officer can say, ‘It’s viral, you can go home,’” Dr. Cherniak said, “you can decrease those wrong prescriptions.”AdvertisementSupported byTrilobitesResearchers identified hundreds of gene variations that may be connected to when people go to bed.By Veronique GreenwoodEarly to bed and early to rise is a maxim that’s easy to follow for some people, and devilishly hard for others.Now, in a study published Tuesday in Nature Communications, researchers curious about the genetic underpinnings of chronotype — whether you are a morning person, a night owl or somewhere in between — looked at about 700,000 people’s genomes. They identified 351 variations that may be connected to when people go to bed. While these variants are just the beginning of exploring the differences in chronotypes, the study goes on to suggest tantalizing links between chronotype and mental health.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The researchers drew on data from 23andMe, the genetic testing company, and the UK Biobank, which tracks hundreds of thousands of volunteer subjects in Britain, about 85,000 of whom wear activity monitors that record their movements.Those data were key, said Michael Weedon, a bioinformaticist at University of Exeter in England and an author of the new paper; earlier studies had relied only on people’s subjective opinions of whether they were morning people. Using the activity monitors, however, the team was able to confirm that self-reported morning people did go to sleep earlier — and people with the most morning-linked gene variants went to bed 25 minutes earlier than people with the fewest. Morning people did not sleep longer or better than night people; all that differed was the time that they went to sleep.The genes flagged in the study play a wide variety of roles in the body.Many seem to play a role in brain tissues, and others are already known to be central to the body’s circadian rhythm. A few were active mainly in the retina, and the people who possessed an uncommon version of one of these genes had an increased chance of being night owls, said Samuel Jones, a researcher at the University of Exeter and the study’s lead author. That could imply a potential a connection between how the eye responds to sunlight and when a person sleeps.Another gene was involved in the body’s processing of caffeine and nicotine, two of our species’ favorite stimulants. Continued study of these and the other genes could provide leads for future work on the biology of sleep timing.“The most interesting ones are the ones where we don’t know what it is,” said Dr. Weedon.When the researchers crunched the numbers on chronotype’s connection to mental health, they also found that self-identified morning people reported a higher level of general well-being. People in this group also were less likely to report having depression or schizophrenia, in line with epidemiological studies suggesting that evening people struggle with mental health.AdvertisementSupported bythe new old ageThe drugs are not just overprescribed. They often pose special risks to older patients, including tendon problems, nerve damage and mental health issues.By Paula SpanLast month, Caryn Isaacs went to see her primary care doctor for her annual Medicare wellness visit. A patient advocate who lives in Manhattan, Ms. Isaacs, 68, felt perfectly fine and expected a clean bill of health.But her doctor, who’d ordered a variety of blood and urine tests, said she had a urinary tract infection and prescribed an antibiotic.“The nurse said, ‘Can you take Cipro?’” Ms. Isaacs recalled. “I didn’t have any reason not to, so I said yes.”There are actually plenty of reasons for older people to avoid Cipro and other antibiotics known as fluoroquinolones, which have prompted warnings from the Food and Drug Administration about their risks of serious side effects.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]And there are good reasons to avoid any antibiotic when bacteria are detected in a urine culture in a patient who has no other signs of infection. So-called asymptomatic bacteriuria increases with age, but these women are not sick and don’t need drugs, so medical guidelines recommend against routine screening or treatment.Yet Ms. Isaac’s prescription was hardly unusual. Despite ongoing campaigns by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and other public health groups, older Americans still take too many antibiotics.Patients over age 65 have the highest rate of outpatient prescribing of any age group. A new C.D.C. study, published in the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, points out that doctors write enough antibiotic prescriptions annually — nearly 52 million in 2014 — for every older person to get at least one.Because the researchers used a national pharmacy database that tracked only outpatients, the study likely underestimates the problem. “The volume would be higher if you included hospitals and nursing homes and other long-term care settings,” said Katherine Fleming-Dutra, deputy director of the C.D.C.’s Office of Antibiotic Stewardship.Glass-half-full types might be pleased to see that after climbing 30 percent from 2000 to 2010, antibiotic prescriptions for older adults leveled off between 2011 and 2014. “That’s potentially good news,” said Dr. Sarah Kabbani, an infectious disease specialist at the C.D.C. and lead author of the study.But what public health advocates want to see is a decline, as has happened with young children, once the group most likely to use antibiotics.“It’s hard to feel heartened about a plateau when overuse remains so prevalent,” said Dr. Caleb Alexander, co-director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Drug Safety and Effectiveness. “It’s as perennial as the grass.”Antibiotic overuse contributes to a serious public health threat by creating drug resistance, as infectious bacteria adapt to the medications. Drugs then lose their effectiveness, forcing doctors to resort to more toxic, less potent, often costlier options. Two million Americans get antibiotic-resistant infections annually, the C.D.C. has reported, and 23,000 die from them. Moreover, antibiotics interact badly with many of the other drugs older adults take, including such widely used medications as statins, blood thinners, kidney and heart medications. “The number of potential drug-drug interactions with antibiotics are vast,” Dr. Alexander cautioned.Some antibiotics also have dismaying, even alarming, side effects in themselves. In 2013, the F.D.A. issued a warning about azithromycin, which in rare cases leads to dangerous heart arrhythmias. But for more than a decade, the agency’s most frequent target has been fluoroquinolones.It has warned that this class of antibiotics (including Cipro and Levaquin) increases the risk of tendinitis and tendon rupture, particularly in older adults; that it can cause the nerve damage called peripheral neuropathy; and that it can lead to hypoglycemia (low blood sugar).“One of the most common problems for older adults are changes in mental status — getting anxious, getting loopy,” said Dr. Sara Cosgrove, medical director of the Johns Hopkins Hospital’s Adult Antimicrobial Stewardship Program. “These drugs get into the brain.” The F.D.A. also warned of the problem in July. In fact, the agency advised in 2016 that fluoroquinolones’ potential side effects outweighed their benefits for several common infections. Last year, it added still another warning about ruptures or tears in the aorta, a rare but serious condition for which older people are at greater risk.Fluoroquinolones are also most implicated in the rampant, difficult-to-cure infection called C. difficile, along with an earlier antibiotic, clindamycin. C. difficile, too, occurs more frequently in older people. Yet what class of antibiotics did the C.D.C. team determine was most commonly prescribed for older adults? Fluoroquinolones. (The most used single drug was azithromycin, marketed as Zithromax, which isn’t a quinolone.)More troublingly, doctors often prescribe these medications unnecessarily, studies repeatedly show. Upper respiratory infections — colds, sinus infections, bronchitis — trigger most prescriptions, but those infections are typically viral, not bacterial, and thus impervious to antibiotics.Nonetheless, a large 2017 study of older adults in Ontario found that almost half were prescribed antibiotics for nonbacterial upper respiratory infections that likely would have cleared up in a few days without them. “Patients usually get better in spite of the drugs, not because of them,” Dr. Alexander said.As Dr. Kabbani pointed out, “when antibiotics are needed, they are lifesaving drugs.” But because they are so widely misused, with resistance such a menace, the C.D.C. has pushed for more prudent practices for consumers and for hospitals. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, similarly, is phasing in policies for wiser antibiotic use in nursing homes.“We want patients to get antibiotics when they need them — the right drug at the right time and the right dose — and not when they don’t,” said Dr. Fleming-Dutra. Even when antibiotics prove necessary, she noted, patients may get the wrong ones or take them for too long. (Fluoroquinolones, for instance, can be useful for hospitalized patients but aren’t first- or even second-line treatments for uncomplicated urinary tract infections; older antibiotics like Bactrim, Septra and Macrobid are.)Getting this right will mean breaking longstanding habits among providers, including dentists (who may unnecessarily tell patients to take antibiotics before appointments if they’ve had certain surgeries).Sometimes, though, patients are the ones demanding a pill to end a cold’s miseries, even when there is no such pill.“We encourage patients not to pressure their physicians to prescribe antibiotics,” Dr. Kabbani advised. And when doctors do prescribe them, “Have a conversation about why. Do I really need it? What else can I do to feel better? What do I watch out for in terms of side effects?”Caryn Isaacs didn’t do well on Cipro. She suffered severe chest pain — “I thought I was having a heart attack” — and felt anxious and irritable. She finished the weeklong course of the drug anyway and her personality changes have receded, she said. But occasional twinges of chest pain persist, along with a sense of weakness.AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie Thomas and Charles OrnsteinThis article was reported and written in collaboration with ProPublica, the nonprofit journalism organization.Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, one of the world’s leading research institutions, announced on Friday that it would bar its top executives from serving on corporate boards of drug and health care companies that, in some cases, had paid them hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.Hospital officials also told the center’s staff that the executive board had made permanent a series of reforms designed to limit the ways in which its top executives and leading researchers could profit from work developed at Memorial Sloan Kettering, a nonprofit with a broad social mission that admits about 23,500 cancer patients each year.The conflicts at Memorial Sloan Kettering, unearthed by The New York Times and ProPublica, have had a rippling effect on other leading cancer institutions across the country. Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, both of whose executives sit on corporate boards, are among the institutions reconsidering their policies on financial ties.In the wake of reports about board memberships held by Memorial Sloan Kettering officials last fall, Dr. Craig B. Thompson, the hospital’s chief executive, resigned in October from the board of Merck. The company, which makes the blockbuster cancer drug Keytruda, had paid him about $300,000 in 2017 for his service.The announcement on Friday was one of several steps the cancer center said it was considering as part of an institutionwide overhaul of its corporate relationships and conflict-of-interest policies. The cancer center has hired Deloitte as well as two law firms, Ropes & Gray and Debevoise & Plimpton, to help conduct its reviews.Debra Berns, the center’s chief risk officer, also said in an email to employees that the hospital’s Board of Overseers and Managers formalized a policy enacted last fall that prohibits board members from investing in start-up companies that Memorial Sloan Kettering helped to found. In addition, it also prevents hospital employees who represent Memorial Sloan Kettering on corporate boards from accepting personal compensation, like equity stakes or stock options, from the companies.Changes in conflict-of-interest policies. Jan. 11, 2019Dr. Walid Gellad, director of the Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Prescribing at the University of Pittsburgh, called the policy changes a “watershed moment.”“This is highly significant, especially at such a high-profile academic center,” Dr. Gellad said in an email. “Leadership matters, and the institution has decided that their leaders should not also be concurrently leading for-profit health companies.”When doctors enter into financial relationships with companies, the concern is that these ties can shape the way studies are designed and medications are prescribed to patients, potentially allowing bias to influence medical practice. A 2014 study in JAMA found that about 40 percent of the largest publicly traded drug companies had a leader of an academic medical center on their boards.Ms. Berns said the Memorial Sloan Kettering board’s policy decision was intended to emphasize the hospital’s focus on education, research and treatment of patients. Dr. Nadeem R. Abu-Rustum, who is president of Memorial Sloan Kettering’s medical staff, said the policy changes were “well-received” by employees.Memorial Sloan Kettering has been shaken by the unfolding series of conflicts of interest since September, when The Times and ProPublica reported that its chief medical officer, Dr. José Baselga, had failed to disclose millions of dollars in payments from drug and health care companies in dozens of articles in medical journals.Dr. Baselga resigned days later, and he also stepped down from the boards of the drugmaker Bristol-Myers Squibb and Varian Medical Systems, a radiation equipment manufacturer. Earlier this month, AstraZeneca announced that it had hired Dr. Baselga to run its new oncology unit.Additional reports detailed how other top officials had cultivated lucrative relationships with for-profit companies, including an artificial intelligence start-up, Paige.AI, that was founded by a member of Memorial Sloan Kettering’s executive board, the chair of the pathology department and the head of a research lab. The hospital struck an exclusive deal with the company to license images of 25 million patient tissue slides that had been collected over decades.Another article detailed how a hospital vice president was given a stake of nearly $1.4 million in a newly public company as compensation for representing Memorial Sloan Kettering on its board.When news of Dr. Baselga’s disclosure lapses first became public, 12 doctors and researchers at the hospital served on the boards of publicly traded companies. The number has now dropped to nine.On October 1, some doctors at the hospital called for a no-confidence vote in Dr. Thompson’s leadership and questioned whether the industry relationships were jeopardizing the hospital’s mission.No such vote was taken, but a day later, Dr. Thompson stepped down from the boards of Merck and Charles River Laboratories, which assists in early drug development.The hospital task force is expected to release draft recommendations in February and will solicit feedback from employees, Ms. Berns said in the memo released Friday. The review is also expected to examine faculty membership on corporate boards, participation on companies’ scientific advisory boards, and doctors’ and researchers’ consulting relationships with drug and health care companies.Memorial Sloan Kettering will also host a symposium in February on disclosing conflicts of interest in medical journals, in what Ms. Berns described as “a first step toward developing a common framework that harmonizes financial disclosures in research publications.”Ms. Berns delivered details of the review at a medical staff meeting Friday morning that was also attended by Dr. Lisa DeAngelis, the hospital’s acting physician-in-chief. During the meeting, Dr. DeAngelis sought to reassure employees that hospital leaders were taking their concerns seriously while also defending the hospital’s reputation as a world-renowned cancer center, according to accounts of the meeting.At one point, according to the accounts, Dr. DeAngelis celebrated recent good news for the institution, including the Food and Drug Administration’s approval of a new cancer drug, Vitravki, developed at the hospital.She also cited internal research that she said showed Memorial Sloan Kettering’s treatment of the Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg had received positive press that overshadowed the recent conflict-of-interest coverage.Justice Ginsburg is recovering from cancer surgery on her left lung that was performed at the center. The Supreme Court announced on Friday that she was still recovering and would not be on the bench next week, but that there was no evidence of any more cancer.Charles Ornstein is a senior editor at ProPublica.AdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew JacobsMom is right when she says to eat your peas.In one of the largest surveys of data on global dietary habits and longevity, researchers found that consuming vegetables, fruit, fish and whole grains was strongly associated with a longer life — and that people who skimped on such healthy foods were more likely to die before their time.The study, published on Wednesday in the British journal The Lancet, concluded that one-fifth of deaths around the world were associated with poor diets — defined as those short on fresh vegetables, seeds and nuts but heavy in sugar, salt and trans fats.In 2017, that came to 11 million deaths that could have been avoided, the researchers said. Most of those, around 10 million, were from cardiovascular disease, researchers found. The next biggest diet-related killers were cancer, with 913,000 deaths, and Type 2 diabetes, which claimed 339,000 lives.“These numbers are really striking,” said Dr. Francesco Branca, the top nutritionist at the World Health Organization, who was not involved in the study. “This should be a wake-up call for the world.”The study, which was funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, covered global eating habits from 1990 to 2017 and tracked consumption in 15 categories — including milk, processed meat, seafood, sodium and fiber.Researchers analyzed data from 195 countries and found that Papua New Guinea, Afghanistan and the Marshall Islands had among the highest proportion of diet-related deaths, while France, Spain and Peru had some of the lowest rates. The United States ranked 43rd. China was among the worst at 140.The study found a tenfold difference between countries with the highest and lowest rates of diet-related deaths. For example, Uzbekistan had 892 deaths per 100,000 people compared with 89 in Israel.Beyond its sobering conclusion, the study was notable for what it prescribed: Rather than browbeating people to reduce their consumption of the fats and sugars that are correlated with illness and premature death, the authors determined that adding healthier foods to global diets was a more effective way to reduce mortality.That’s because the gap between the amount of nourishing foods people should eat but don’t is much greater than that between the levels of harmful things they regularly put in their mouths but shouldn’t, said Dr. Ashkan Afshin, an epidemiologist at the University of Washington who was the paper’s lead author. For example, he noted that global average intake of red meat was 27 grams a day, slightly higher than the recommended daily limit of 23 grams. But when it comes to eating healthful nuts and seeds, most people eat on average 3 grams, far less than the 21 grams considered optimal.The only exception was excess salt, which the research said was highly correlated with illness and death.“To me, this study says that it’s time to change the conversation both at the policy level and among the general public,” Dr. Afshin said.He and other experts said the findings underlined the importance of national policies to boost the availability of fruits and vegetables, especially in low-income countries where fresh produce can be costlier than processed food. Large food companies should be pressured to create healthier products, the experts said, and doctors should be encouraged to discuss the importance of a good diet with their patients.“Let’s not just focus on the things we should be cutting out of our diet because to be honest, we’ve tried that for a while,” said Dr. Nita Gandhi Forouhi, an epidemiologist at University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine who wrote a commentary that accompanied the study.Not everyone agreed with the study’s central recommendations. Dr. Arun Gupta, a pediatrician and nutrition activist in India, said he thought the authors should have placed more emphasis on the role that food companies play in the spread of unhealthy foods. “My fear is that this will take the pressure off industry, who can use the report to say, ‘We’re doing nothing wrong,’” he said.The study had some limitations. There were notable gaps in diet-related data from poorer nations and some of the deaths, the authors noted, could have been attributed to more than one dietary factor, leading to an overestimation of the burden of diseases attributable to diet.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressATLANTA — Tom Smith hesitated to buy light bulbs guaranteed for up to 10 years, thinking they'd outlast him. Terry Langbaum debated filling a prescription for a $13,000-a-month drug that keeps cancer from worsening for three months on average and carries six pages of warnings."There are so many of us living with cancers that can't be cured," Langbaum said. "We study the treatments but we don't study what it's like to be the person going through treatment."Millions of people live with metastatic cancer — disease that has spread through the body and is considered incurable. They are surviving longer as treatments improve, often seeing cancer subside and flare again and again. Now many are pushing to be included more widely in research and to have it focus more on the patient's point of view."It's really about time that happened," said Dr. Elizabeth Jaffee, deputy director of Johns Hopkins University's Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center. Patients should be asked what side effects and risks they'll accept, "not just treated as research subjects," she said.Jaffee is president of the American Association for Cancer Research, and its annual meeting this week in Atlanta featured many talks on the need for involving patients more in metastatic cancer research. Smith is a doctor and palliative care chief at Hopkins who is being treated for metastatic prostate cancer. Langbaum is a Hopkins administrator who developed three other cancers from radiation treatments for her first one 37 years ago. Smith and Langbaum wrote about their experiences Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine.Guidelines on how cancer survivors should be monitored later in life often assume the disease is in remission rather than still being treated, they wrote. Many patients now live for years with advanced cancer: Sixteen percent of people with widely spread lung cancer survive five years. Patients wonder if they should have genetic testing, how they'll deal with the cost of long treatment and whether their doctors can keep up with the latest discoveries."We could also use some guidance even on seemingly irrelevant health decisions," such as whether it's worth it to be tested for other medical conditions or to take a cholesterol-lowering medicine "when you don't even know if you should take a chance on purchasing airline tickets for a summer vacation," Smith and Langbaum wrote .Smith said hormone therapy and dozens of radiation treatments for his prostate cancer caused extreme fatigue. A marathoner, he said he "went from somebody who could run 50 miles, or 26 miles, to somebody who gets short of breath going up the stairs.""I've got terrible sleep, hot flashes every 45 minutes," mood swings and depression, he said. Last summer, "I actually admitted myself to the hospital so I wouldn't kill myself."A good psychiatrist, help from his family and a support group, and a new antidepressant have helped.When she was 34, Langbaum was treated for Hodgkin lymphoma with radiation that led to breast and stomach cancers in later years. Two years ago, doctors found an unusual and inoperable soft tissue cancer called a sarcoma between her throat and windpipe. She said she has lived "in this constant fear of the other shoe dropping."Billy Foster, a jazz pianist and radio show host from Gary, Indiana, who spoke at the Atlanta conference as a patient advocate, talked about the uncertainty cancer patients live with. Foster had a cancerous kidney removed in 1996, but in 2007 learned the disease had spread to his lungs, liver and brain."They say if you go five years, you're kind of in the clear," but that's often not true, Foster said. He joined a study testing an experimental drug that helped him for five years until the company abandoned it."It wasn't working for enough people but it was saving my life," Foster said. His doctor persuaded the company to keep making the drug for him for another year, long enough for a new drug to come out that seems to be keeping his cancer in check.Several studies are examining "what allows some people to live a very long time with incurable cancer," said Dr. Mark Burkard, who is leading one at the University of Wisconsin in Madison for breast cancer. Around 750 women have given extensive details on their treatments and lifestyles, and tumor samples are being analyzed for genetic clues.Langbaum and Smith say they are focusing on living. She filled the prescription she'd been debating. He bought the long-lasting light bulbs."I figured, even if I can't enjoy them, the next person who lives in our house might," he said.___AdvertisementSupported byUnder the plan, all new employer-sponsored health plans that use the major insurer will have to pass drug discounts to consumers beginning next year.By Katie ThomasThe insurance giant UnitedHealthcare said Tuesday that it will expand a program that passes drug discounts directly to consumers, a move that could lower costs for many who have struggled with high deductible payments and other out-of-pocket expenses. United said the plan would take effect next year and would be required for all new employer clients, although existing clients would be permitted to continue under the older system. Those clients will be “encouraged” to adopt the new plan when their contracts expire, but will not be required to do so, according to Matthew Stearns, a spokesman for OptumRx, the pharmacy benefit manager that is owned by United.Other insurers have offered employers the option to apply the after-the-fact discounts, called rebates, to consumers’ out-of-pocket expenses, but United appears to be the first major insurer to require it of new clients. “This expanded point-of-sale discount program demonstrates our commitment to delivering better prices for consumers," John Prince, the chief executive of OptumRx, said in a statement.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Rebates have come under harsh criticism and are blamed for helping to push up the list price of drugs, which consumers are increasingly responsible for paying. Even though insurers and employers pay a lower net price (after rebates have been accounted for), many consumers have been forced to pay the equivalent of a drug’s list price at the pharmacy when they have not yet met their annual deductible, or when their plan requires that they contribute a percentage of a drug’s price.As consumer anger over drug prices has grown, pharmaceutical companies and insurers have increasingly pointed fingers at each other, with drug companies accusing insurers of profiting from their share of the rebates they collect, while insurers say the manufacturers are the ones that decide what a drug costs. Both industries have come under scrutiny by the Trump administration and members of Congress, and have struggled to show that they are doing something to address the issue.In January, the Trump administration proposed a similar move for government health care programs like Medicare. Under the proposed rule, pharmacy benefit managers — the intermediaries that negotiate with drug makers on behalf of insurers and employers — would lose the legal protections that allow them to accept rebates from drug companies for brand-name drugs covered under the Medicaid and Medicare government programs. Any such discounts would instead have to be credited at the pharmacy counter when patients filled a prescription.United said its analysis of employers who have voluntarily adopted such a program shows that consumers are more likely to fill their prescriptions, which can improve their health. The company also said the existing voluntary program, which began this year, has lowered drug costs for consumers by an average of $130 per eligible prescription.Employers and insurers have typically used rebates to lower premiums for all members, and under the Trump plan, Medicare beneficiaries’ drug-plan premiums are expected to rise slightly. AdvertisementSupported byDoctors and insurers are using federal guidelines as cover to turn away patients, experts tell the C.D.C. and Congress. By Jan Hoffman and Abby GoodnoughThree years ago this month, as alarms about the over-prescription of opioid painkillers were sounding across the country, the federal government issued course-correcting guidelines for primary care doctors. Prescriptions have fallen notably since then, and the Trump administration is pushing for them to drop by another third by 2021.But in a letter to be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Wednesday, more than 300 medical experts, including three former White House drug czars, contend that the guidelines are harming one group of vulnerable patients: those with severe chronic pain, who may have been taking high doses of opioids for years without becoming addicted. They say the guidelines are being used as cover by insurers to deny reimbursement and by doctors to turn patients away. As a result, they say, patients who could benefit from the medications are being thrown into withdrawal and suffering renewed pain and a diminished quality of life, even to the point of suicide.The letter writers form an uneasy alliance spanning differing positions on opioids — professors of addiction medicine as well as pain specialists, some patient representatives who have taken money from the pharmaceutical industry, and the former drug czars, from the Obama, Clinton and Nixon administrations.Michael Botticelli, who served as the drug czar under President Obama and now leads the Grayken Center for Addiction at Boston Medical Center, said he signed the letter because “there has been enough anecdotal evidence to raise the alarm bells” about the misuse of the guidelines leading to pain patients losing effective treatment.“The C.D.C. really does need a rigorous evaluation of this because we don’t know how big the problem is,” he said. “Minimally, we need some level of clarification on appropriate use of the guidelines.”Specifically, the letter asks the C.D.C. to emphatically state that treatment decisions for these patients be left to their doctors.“It is imperative that health care professionals and administrators realize that the guideline does not endorse mandated involuntary dose reduction or discontinuation,” the group wrote in the letter, which it also sent to members of relevant congressional committees. A spokeswoman for the C.D.C., Julie Eschelbach, said the guidelines “do not endorse mandated or abrupt dose reduction or discontinuation.” She added that the agency has several studies underway to examine the guidelines’ impact, and has published a “pocket guide” for doctors on tapering.The guidelines are nonbinding, but many of them have become enshrined in state regulations. Therefore, said Dr. Stefan G. Kertesz, an author of the letter who teaches addiction medicine at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, “it’s normal to say from the top: ‘This needs a clarification because we don’t want people hurt.’”Others say the problem lies not with the guidelines, which urge non-opioid therapies as the first-line treatment for chronic pain, but with their misapplication.“What the guidelines are being blamed for versus what they actually recommend are two different things,” said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, who ran the C.D.C. when the guidelines were developed.Experts in addiction medicine distinguish patients who need opioids for chronic pain from people addicted to the drugs: while some patients are physically dependent and will go into withdrawal if the drugs are withheld, the opioids help them function, despite severe pain.“But just because you’re on a higher dose doesn’t mean you’re addicted,” said Dr. Daniel P. Alford, a professor who directs addiction medicine education at the Boston University School of Medicine, who signed the letter.Addiction, he said, is “a behavioral maladaptation where the medication takes over their lives, and they continue to use despite negative consequences.”The guidelines say doctors should discuss the costs of a high-dose regimen with pain patients and press for a prudent taper. They do not say those patients’ drugs should be summarily reduced. They advise doctors to prescribe opioids to new patients only for a short time, and with a daily dose below 90 morphine milligram equivalents. That recommendation has prompted many states and monitoring systems to impose a hard stop at that level for all patients except those with cancer or in end-of-life care.“Who says that 90 is a magical threshold?” Dr. Alford asked. “There’s no good evidence. Yes, we should avoid escalating doses, but how do we treat people who are already on high doses?”Dr. Frieden defended 90 M.M.E., as the measurement is known, as a responsible ceiling. “The death rates just go up exponentially,” he said, for people on very high doses of opioids.Dr. Frieden said more doctors should be allowed to get federal permission to prescribe buprenorphine, a lower-risk opioid drug that can effectively manage opioid dependence while treating pain, as an alternative to more dangerous painkillers.(Dr. Frieden was charged last summer with groping a woman; he pleaded not guilty and the case is still pending.)The letter to the C.D.C. echoes a November resolution by the American Medical Association, which protested the “misapplication” of the guidelines “by pharmacists, health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, legislatures, and governmental and private regulatory bodies in ways that prevent or limit access to opioid analgesia.”A central question is how many patients have suffered from their doses being reduced or from being taken off opioids entirely.  A report by the inspector general at the Department of Health and Human Services estimated that in 2016 about 500,000 beneficiaries of Medicare drug plans had been getting prescriptions of 120 M.M.E. or greater for three months or longer — a figure that doesn’t fully capture the current affected population.Accompanying the experts’ letter are testimonials by hundreds of pain patients detailing struggles in the wake of the guidelines.The opioid prescribing rate has been falling since 2012, but the amount prescribed per person is still about three times higher than it was in 1999, at the beginning of the addiction crisis, according to the C.D.C. While overdose deaths because of prescription opioids have begun leveling off, deaths from illicit fentanyl and its analogues increased by more than 45 percent in 2017 alone, a phenomenon that the letter writers attribute in part to the crackdown on pain pill prescriptions. Dr. John Brooklyn, who runs two large addiction treatment programs in Vermont, gave one example. A 61-year-old patient, disabled by a back injury, had been functioning well for years on 225 M.M.E., he said. Invoking the guidelines, his pain doctor started cutting his dose by 40 milligrams a month.“When he was at 120 M.M.E.,” said Dr. Brooklyn, “he was in such severe pain that he was buying opioids on the street. He barely ate, lost 40 pounds, couldn’t pay rent and then turned to cheap heroin. His doctor continued to reduce his dose and, at 30 M.M.E., the patient called our program.”Dr. Brooklyn put the patient on methadone, a type of opioid approved to treat addiction as well as to manage chronic pain. “It was like watering a dehydrated plant,” he said.Dr. Joanna L. Starrels, an associate professor of medicine at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and one of the experts who helped draft the C.D.C. guidelines, said chronic pain patients are an especially fragile group. “Some with severe persistent pain are barely getting by,” she said. “They are sometimes homebound, unable to work or fully participate in most of the rewarding aspects of life.” Their rates of depression are high, she said, and they have few reliable treatment alternatives.Research that looks at the effect of dose reduction on such patients is in its infancy, she said. In fact the guidelines include a plea for research to evaluate their efficacy.That the guidelines have had widespread impact is not in question. While a handful of hospital systems and states had adopted opioid prescription limits before 2016, the number of institutions have since shot up.In its annual survey of hospital-based pharmacies last year, the American Society of Health-System Pharmacists asked about opioid monitoring for the first time. In preliminary results, 41 percent said they had done so and some cited the C.D.C. guidelines.By the end of 2016, seven states had passed legislation limiting opioid prescriptions; by October 2018, 33 states had enacted laws with some type of limit, guidance or requirement related to opioids, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.Aetna, one of the country’s largest health insurers, placed a limit of 90 M.M.E.s per day on its members last year based on the C.D.C. guidelines, said Ethan Slavin, a company spokesman. The stricter daily limits “are part of our efforts to help reduce the potential for misuse and diversion of the drugs,” he said, adding that prescribers who believe higher doses are needed can seek special permission by consulting with Aetna’s experts.A study last year found that insurers overall were not doing enough to increase access to alternative pain treatments, including therapeutic massage, acupuncture and non-opioid drugs.Dr. Anna Lembke, medical director of addiction medicine at Stanford, declined to sign the letter, saying the guidelines were sufficiently moderate.The remedy to the problems detailed in the letter, she said, was to educate primary care doctors about how to provide “safe, compassionate, patient-centered tapers when medically indicated,” which can be a protracted, delicate process.Dr. Kertesz acknowledged that tapering was a worthy goal. “But more typically what we are seeing,” he said, “are people who report non-consensual tapers.”AdvertisementSupported byOn March 25-26, the Food and Drug Administration is holding a two-day conference as it takes another look at breast implants because of renewed safety concerns. By Denise Grady and Roni Caryn RabinReports from thousands of women that breast implants are causing problems like debilitating joint pain and fatigue, claims long dismissed by the medical profession, are receiving new attention from the Food and Drug Administration and researchers.This may be a long-awaited moment of validation for tens of thousands of women who have been brushed off as neurotic, looking to cash in on lawsuits or just victims of chance who coincidentally became ill while having implants. The F.D.A. has begun to re-examine questions about implant safety that have long been disputed by doctors and implant manufacturers, and that most consumers thought had been resolved a decade or so ago. Millions of women have implants, which are silicone sacs filled with either salt water or silicone gel, used to enlarge the breasts cosmetically or to rebuild them after a mastectomy for breast cancer.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]On Tuesday, the agency warned two makers of breast implants that they had failed to conduct adequate long-term studies of the devices’ effects on women’s health. Those studies were mandated as a condition of approving the implants, and the agency cautioned that the devices could be taken off the market if the research wasn’t properly carried out. The agency also issued a statement on Friday that applied to a broad array of medical devices, acknowledging that implanted devices may make some people sick. “A growing body of evidence suggests that a small number of patients may have biological responses to certain types of materials in implantable or insertable devices,” the agency said. Those effects can include “inflammatory reactions and tissue changes causing pain and other symptoms that may interfere with their quality of life.”The F.D.A. said it was gathering information to fill information gaps in the science “to further our understanding of medical device materials and improve the safety of devices for patients.” Silicone, used in implants, is one of the materials under scrutiny.And next week, the agency will hold a two-day meeting about breast implants, hearing from researchers, patient advocacy groups and manufacturers. One problem to be discussed is an uncommon cancer of the immune system called anaplastic large cell lymphoma, which has been detected so far in 457 women with breast implants, according to the F.D.A. Removing the implants usually eliminates the disease, but some women have also needed chemotherapy, and 17 deaths from the cancer have been reported worldwide.Nearly all the lymphoma cases have occurred in women who had implants with a textured surface, rather than a smooth one. Textured implants made by Allergan, a major manufacturer, were taken off the market in Europe in December. Smooth implants are used more often than textured ones in the United States.Another focus of the conference will be “breast implant illness,” which encompasses disorders that may involve the immune system and can cause muscle pain, fatigue, weakness, cognitive difficulties and other debilitating symptoms. Some ailments fall into a category called connective tissue disease, which includes lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and other serious autoimmune diseases.The F.D.A. website says the agency “has not detected any association between silicone gel-filled breast implants and connective tissue disease.” But it adds, “In order to rule out these and other complications, studies would need to be larger and longer than these conducted so far.”The new warnings are of potential concern to millions of women with implants. About 400,000 women in the United States get breast implants every year, including 300,000 for cosmetic reasons and 100,000 for reconstruction after mastectomies performed to treat or prevent breast cancer. Worldwide, about 10 million women have breast implants.The F.D.A.’s new focus on implants is a testament to the power of patient activism in the age of social media, as sick women frustrated by their doctors’ lack of answers sought information online, found other patients with similar complaints and banded together to demand regulatory action. One Facebook group has nearly 70,000 members, according to its founder, Nicole Daruda, a Vancouver Island woman who felt well when she got implants in 2005 for reconstruction after cancer surgery, but soon became so ill she had to stop working.Ms. Daruda had them removed in 2013, and said most, but not all, of her symptoms have lessened.Another patient activist, Jamee Cook, now 41, had implant surgery for cosmetic reasons when she was 21. Over the next few years she developed so many health problems, including fatigue, memory lapses, migraines and numbness in her hands, that she had to quit her job as a paramedic.After having the implants removed in 2015, she said, her health has improved. Though she still has some bad days, Ms. Cook said, “It’s been like a 180.”Silicone-filled breast implants were first marketed in the United States in the 1960s. Over the next few decades, reports of illness emerged. In 1992, silicone implants were banned, except for reconstruction after mastectomy or to replace a previous implant, and then only in clinical trials.A flood of lawsuits followed.Studies conducted afterward generally found no link to connective tissue disease, but a few did suggest a connection. In 1999, the Institute of Medicine, then part of the National Academy of Sciences, concluded that overall, there was no evidence that breast implants caused connective tissue disease, cancer, immune disorders or other ailments.In 2006, silicone implants came back on the market. But manufacturers were required to follow large numbers of women for seven to 10 years, as a condition for F.D.A. approval. Deficiencies in the studies have now prompted the agency to send warning letters to two of the four companies approved to market breast implants in the United States.One warning letter, sent to the manufacturer Sientra, of Santa Barbara, Calif. on Tuesday, said the company had not kept enough patients in its study of an implant approved in 2012, and warned that if the follow-up monitoring did not improve, the agency could withdraw approval of the implant, effectively taking it off the market. Rosalyn d’Incelli, vice president of clinical and medical affairs for Sientra, said the company tries to retain patients in follow-up studies by compensating them, contacting them several times a year through email, phone calls, letters and postcards, and transferring them to doctors in more convenient locations. But she said that patients’ work obligations, child care, lack of transportation and other issues often present obstacles.“We are aware of and take this matter seriously,” Ms. D’Incelli said, adding that the company will respond to the F.D.A. about corrective measures it plans to take. “Patient safety, ensuring long-term safety and effectiveness of our devices and complying with F.D.A.’s requirements are our highest priority.” Its stock price dropped a little more than four percent on the F.D.A. news. Last September, the Securities and Exchange Commission accused its former chief executive, Hani Zeini, of concealing damaging information about the manufacturer of its implants before closing a $60 million stock offering in 2015. The Brazilian manufacturer had had a certificate of compliance required for selling in the European Union suspended. Sientra said its issue with the S.E.C. had been resolved.The other letter went to Mentor Worldwide, owned by Johnson & Johnson and based in Irvine, Calif. The F.D.A. said the company had not enrolled enough patients in a study of its MemoryShape implant, approved in 2013, and also threatened to rescind approval for the product. Withdrawing approval for a medical device is time-consuming and rarely occurs. Mindy Tinsley, a spokeswoman for Mentor, said the company was disappointed by the F.D.A.'s decision to issue a warning letter "despite our good faith efforts to address post-approval study requirements." She said Mentor notified the FDA last year that it would fall short of study enrollment targets because of changes in consumer preferences, but did not hear back. J&J’s stock remained unaffected on Tuesday. According to the F.D.A., the other two manufacturers whose breast implants are approved in the United States are Allergan and Ideal Implant, which did not receive warning letters on Tuesday. But their implants have also drawn some illness-related complaints from women. Plastic surgeons and implant manufacturers often say breast implants are the most intensely studied of all medical devices. But critics and patient advocates say most studies done to date are flawed.“When plastic surgeons tell women that ‘this is the most studied medical device in the world,’ women assume that means they are proven safe,” said Diana Zuckerman, president of the National Center for Health Research in Washington, D.C., who has been advising advocates for patients with implant-related illness. But, “we still don’t know what percentage of women become seriously ill from their breast implants. We still don’t know why some women get sick right away, some get sick years later and some never get sick.”Dr. Zuckerman, trained in psychology and epidemiology, will speak at the F.D.A. meeting next week. She wrote a 40-page analysis of breast implant studies, and found that most had not tracked long-term outcomes, or had lost too many participants. In addition, she said, the studies focused only on diseases with specific diagnoses, while ignoring symptoms like joint pain and chronic fatigue. And they were generally too small to detect rare diseases, and were funded by implant manufacturers or plastic surgery associations that had a stake in the outcomes.Newer studies looking at long-term outcomes have found disproportionately high rates of some uncommon chronic diseases among women with implants, though these studies show only associations and do not prove a cause-and-effect relationship.Plastic surgeons at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston who looked at the long term outcomes of 99,993 women with silicone implants reported finding they had six, seven and eight times the normal population rates of rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma (a connective tissue disease) and Sjogren syndrome (an autoimmune disorder), all of which are relatively rare diseases.An author of the study, Dr. Mark Clemens, cautioned that it did not prove cause and effect, and said in an interview, “The overarching message is that breast implants are reasonably safe and have high patient satisfaction, but also have complications that patients should be made aware of.”Critics said the study, published in Annals of Surgery in September, did not adjust for underlying differences between women with and without implants, and that the data, drawn from the F.D.A.’s own database, was flawed because of high dropout rates. “All the evidence we have to date is that implants are safe,” said Dr. Amy S. Colwell, a plastic surgeon at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston who wrote an editorial criticizing the study, and who is a consultant for Allergan, an implant manufacturer.An Israeli study published in December that was based on a health insurer’s medical records, compared 24,651 women with silicone breast implants to 98,602 similar women without implants, and found that those with implants had a 22 percent increase in the risk of having any auto-immune or rheumatic disorder. It also found higher rates of Sjogrens, scleroderma and rheumatoid arthritis, as well as other illnesses.“Implants are not so innocent as presented,” said Dr. Howard Amital, a rheumatologist who was the study’s senior author. Though he acknowledged the study does not prove a causal relationship, he said that the association between implants and the disorders “is highly indicative.” AdvertisementSupported byThe rapper talked to Moj Mahdara, the C.E.O. of Beautycon, about financial literacy and how more women in beauty can “chase the bag.”By Crystal MartinThere is a lot of money to be made in beauty, and right now a lot of it is being made by male executives. Moj Mahdara wants to change that. The C.E.O. of Beautycon, which holds semiannual festival-like trade shows, recently raised $20 million in funding and has begun to open pop-up retail spaces in Los Angeles. She wants to see women achieve Warren Buffett-, Bill Gates- and Jeff Bezos-level wealth on their own terms. So she brought in a case study: Cardi B, the queen of “money moves.”Cardi talks about money without condescension. “Everything she’s telling you — about spending, saving, taxes — is transparent and through her lived experience,” said Ms. Mahdara. At Beautycon NYC, Cardi and Ms. Mahdara spoke about how the basics of financial literacy ignore some personal-finance realities. “You can save money when you can afford to save money,” Cardi said. “How you gonna save money and you have bills to pay?”Ms. Mahdara shared a common statistic on pay parity: A woman makes around 80 cents on a man’s dollar (a recent study found the gap is worse than that, 49 cents to every dollar). She asked Cardi for her insight on the matter. The rapper insisted she gets paid equally — now, at least. Back when Cardi was Insta-famous, but not yet “Bodak Yellow” famous, she hosted parties at clubs for a fee. It became clear that the rappers and other guys she co-hosted with were making more money than she was for the same job. “I said, ‘I’m going to stop taking bookings until y’all pay me more,’” she said. And “that bag doubled.” “Women are not comfortable talking about money,” Ms. Mahdara said, and men aren’t comfortable talking to them about it. She believes that her appearance and demeanor, as a butch, queer woman, intimidates the men she meets through business. “I think that’s half the reason I have issues with investors or people I work with,” she said. “I’m not a female they can put in a category and that’s uncomfortable for them.”Here, Cardi shares advice for leveling up, hustling and getting paid:Cardi said she was always shy, and that it took getting used to asking for what she wanted. “That’s why men are sometimes good hustlers,” she said. “Women are so timid. A lot of girls ask me, ‘How do I get what I want?’ By asking.” Cardi was a stripper for a few years before she found fame online and on “Love & Hip Hop.” She hates bringing it up, she said, because she’s not suggesting that women should follow her path. But she learned a lot about money while dancing for tips. “When I started becoming popular, I used to say, ‘I want y’all to throw me money. Don’t even talk to me if y’all not throwing me some money,’” she said. “Then when they started seeing me, it was like, ‘Here I know you want some money so let me throw it at you.’ You just gotta ask.” (Last month video footage surfaced on Instagram in which Cardi said that she drugged and robbed men while working as a stripper. In a statement, the rapper said, “I'm a part of a hip-hop culture where you can talk about where you come from, talk about the wrong things you had to do to get where you are.”)After having a daughter, Kulture, last year with her husband, Offset, Cardi feels even more driven to make money. “I can never be comfortable,” she said. Motherhood brings up thoughts of her own mother, who always told her to have children only if she could afford to take care of them on her own. “I used to think my mom was paranoid. But as you get older you understand what your mom be talking to you about,” she said. “I always dated guys that had money. But I didn’t have the money. What happens if we separate? I don’t want to be asking you for stuff — no, that’s not my style.”Cardi would rather see you using influencers as inspiration for how to get money rather than distraction from making it. “These bloggers making mad money from y’all watching,” she said. “Watch their recipe.” Cardi said the lavish lives rappers portray aren’t realistic. Flying private, for example, is at best an excess. But sometimes, to avoid the drama of airports now that she has Kulture, it’s unavoidable. “It’s a write-off sometimes, but you gotta prove all day that it’s a write-off,” she said. “And even if it is, that’s money you could've had.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie ThomasThe drugmaker Eli Lilly will begin selling a cheaper version of its most popular insulin, Humalog, in an effort to head off criticism about the rising costs of prescription drugs, the company said Monday.Lilly will begin selling an “authorized generic” of Humalog 100 for $137.35 per vial, a 50 percent discount off the list price. An authorized generic means that, except for the label, it is identical to the brand-name drug and manufactured in the same facilities. The new product, which the company said would be made available as quickly as possible, will be called Insulin Lispro and will be sold through a Lilly subsidiary, ImClone Systems.“There are clearly patients who, despite many best efforts, are struggling to afford their insulin,” David Ricks, the chief executive of Lilly, said in an interview Friday. “This is a step we can take to close part of that remaining gap.”The move offers a compromise to critics who have called on drugmakers to lower their list prices. Lilly will continue selling Humalog at its regular price to the insurers and employers who want to keep pocketing the large discounts, or rebates, they receive for purchasing brand-name drugs, while also making available a cheaper version to patients who pay for their insulin out of pocket.As a result, people without health insurance should benefit most from the generic insulin, while those with drug coverage will either experience no change or see some decrease in their costs.“This announcement is a great step forward to make insulin more affordable,” said Derek Rapp, the chief executive of JDRF, a diabetes advocacy group that receives funding from Eli Lilly. He called on “all other insulin manufacturers to follow Eli Lilly in finding ways to bring down the price of this lifesaving drug.”But others, such as Elizabeth Rowley, the founder and director of T1International, a diabetes advocacy group that does not accept drug-industry funding, said Lilly and other companies could do more while still making a profit on their insulin products. “While half-price is certainly an improvement, it’s still an unaffordable price for so many,” she said.Pharmaceutical companies have been under pressure to show they are doing something about the rising list price of their products, which consumers have increasingly been exposed to as insurers scale back on coverage. Multiple congressional inquiries have focused on insulin, and last week executives for seven major drugmakers testified on drug prices in a hearing before the Senate Finance Committee. President Trump has also made the issue a priority.Critics have singled out insulin manufacturers because versions of the lifesaving diabetes treatment have been around since the 1920s, yet the three companies that control the market — Lilly, Novo Nordisk and Sanofi — have consistently raised list prices over the past decade.Outrage over the cost of insulin has driven much of the political conversation about high drug prices, with reports of patients dying because they could not afford it.In February, the Senate Finance Committee sent Lilly a letter asking for more information about how it sets prices for its insulin products, including Humalog. The letter noted that taxpayers spend more than $1 billion a year for Humalog through Medicare and Medicaid and said, “When one insulin product costs the taxpayer more than $1 billion in one year, the American people ought to know how the company prices its product.”Sen. Ron Wyden, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Finance Committee, said in a statement Monday that the investigation into Lilly’s insulin prices would continue. “The company’s decision to offer a generic version of a several decade old drug will be part of the investigation,” he said.The story of insulin, many say, is a salient example of how the drug pricing system is broken. Over the years, industry intermediaries known as pharmacy benefit managers have negotiated ever-deeper discounts for insulin, yielding savings for the insurers and employers that pay the bulk of drug costs. Insulin manufacturers have responded by raising their list prices in an effort, they say, to please the benefit managers, who keep a percentage of the discounts they pass along.The list price of insulin has gone from about $20 per vial in 1996, when Humalog entered the market, to about $275 per vial today. Humalog patients typically use about two vials a month, Lilly said.The result is a yawning gap between the list price of insulin — which people who are uninsured must pay — and the net price that insurers and employers pay.Enrique A. Conterno, the president of Lilly’s diabetes division, said Friday that the list price of the authorized generic will be comparable to the net price the company regularly offered to insurers in exchange for standard placement on their formulary, or the list of covered drugs, although he did not specify a dollar amount. But he said the company provided deeper discounts to insurers that give Humalog preferred treatment, which typically means lower out-of-pocket costs for patients.Mr. Ricks, Lilly’s chief executive, said the net price of Humalog — the amount the company keeps — has dropped by 8 percent over the past five years.By releasing an authorized generic of Humalog, Lilly will permit its existing contracts with insurers to continue, while offering a more affordable alternative to people who pay out of pocket. The company said about 95 percent of Humalog patients pay less than $100 per month.Other drug companies have made similar moves while facing heat for their prices. In 2016, Mylan began selling an authorized generic of the EpiPen in response to outrage over the price of the allergy treatment. Last fall, Gilead announced it would do the same for two of its pricey hepatitis C drugs.Offering an authorized generic for an expensive drug is “a really great solution for patients who don’t have health insurance, or who are paying a deductible or coinsurance,” or a percentage of a drug’s list price, said Stacie B. Dusetzina, who studies drug pricing at the Vanderbilt University Medical Center.Lilly has offered a discount program since 2016 that allows consumers to buy Humalog at a significant discount, but Medicare beneficiaries and other people insured by government health care plans were not allowed to use it. The authorized generic will not carry those restrictions, and pharmacists will be able to automatically substitute it for Humalog without asking a doctor to write a new prescription.Humalog 100 is the most common variety of Lilly’s short-acting insulin. The company said about 80 percent of patients taking Humalog use the vial or the KwikPen, which will both become available as authorized generics. (The list price of a five-pack of the generic equivalent of KwikPens will be $265.20.)Humalog brought in nearly $3 billion in revenue in 2018 and is the company’s second-best-selling product, behind the diabetes drug Trulicity.Mr. Conterno said the company was considering releasing authorized generics for other insulin products. However, “we also want to see how this works,” he said. “I’ll be honest, we are entering unusual territory.”Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byBy eliminating the financial burden of a medical education, the school hopes that more students will choose family medicine and other vital but lower-paid specialties.By Abby GoodnoughKaiser Permanente, the California-based health system that is preparing to open one of the few American medical schools not connected to a university, was set to announce Tuesday that it would waive tuition for every student in its first five graduating classes.Kaiser Permanente, which has its own hospitals, clinics, doctors and insurance plan, is following the New York University School of Medicine, which announced last year that it would eliminate tuition for all current and future students. Like N.Y.U., Kaiser’s main goal is to keep students from forgoing lower-paying specialties like family medicine because of crushing debt, or foreclosing the option of medical school altogether because of the cost.“Even middle-class families are finding medical school hard to pay for,” said Mark Schuster, the founding dean and chief executive of the Kaiser Permanente School of Medicine. “We’re going to see how this plays out and learn from it.”He said the school would start accepting applications in June and open in Pasadena in the summer of 2020. The annual tuition will be about $55,000, he said, adding that while it was not planning to cover tuition beyond the first five classes, it would provide “very generous financial aid” based on need after that.Unlike N.Y.U., which is raising $600 million from donors to pay for its tuition plan, Kaiser Permanente is tapping into the portion of its revenue that it spends on “community benefits,” which all nonprofit hospitals have to provide to keep their tax-exempt status. The company says it spent $2.3 billion on community benefits in 2017, including charity care for the uninsured and other spending that promotes community health. It has nearly $73 billion in operating revenue over all.Each class will have 48 students, smaller than average for a medical school. But what will set it apart most, Dr. Schuster said, is teaching Kaiser Permanente’s model of integrated care, in which doctors work on teams with other types of medical providers, including pharmacists, psychologists and social workers, supported by technology and data, to make sure none of a patient’s health needs slip through the cracks.Students will skip the lecture-type science courses that typically dominate the first year of medical school and immediately start “integrated clerkships” in Kaiser Permanente hospitals and clinics, starting with primary care and adding surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, pediatrics and psychiatry the second year.Another focus will be teaching medical students how to  be aggressive champions for their patients. Dr. Schuster said one such role model was Dr. Mona Hanna-Attisha, the pediatrician in Flint, Mich., whose analysis of local children’s blood tests proved that the city’s water was causing widespread lead poisoning.“We want our students to have the confidence and skill to do what she did and speak truth to power,” Dr. Schuster said. “That involves being able to go outside the clinic, write the op-ed when needed, go to a community advocacy group and say, ‘I need your help.’ I don’t know if other schools are teaching that.”N.Y.U.’s offer seems to have already had an impact: Its medical school saw applications increase by 47 percent for next year, to 8,932. The number of applicants who identify as black jumped by 142 percent, to 1,062.Neither Kaiser Permanente nor N.Y.U. will cover room and board for students, though Kaiser will offer them insurance through its system, Dr. Schuster said.Other medical schools have taken steps recently to decrease their students’ financial burden. Columbia University’s is using a $250 million gift for a new endowment that will fund scholarships and grants meant to ensure none of its medical students incur debt.About three-quarters of medical school students graduate with debt, according to the Association of American Medical Colleges; members of the 2017 graduating class who had debt reported a median amount of $192,000.AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie ThomasGavin Newsom dived into the highly charged debate over prescription drug prices in his first week as California’s governor, vowing action on a topic that has enraged the public but has proved resistant to easy fixes.His idea: Find strength in numbers. Within hours of taking office on Monday, Mr. Newsom signed an executive order proposing a plan that would allow California to directly negotiate with drug manufacturers.The state would bring to the bargaining table not just the 13 million beneficiaries of Medi-Cal (California’s version of Medicaid), but also other state agencies that purchase drugs, including coverage for state workers and prisoners. Down the road, the plan could possibly allow private insurers and employers to join in the savings.“We think this is a significant step forward,” Mr. Newsom said in a video address. “It’s the right thing to do, and I recognize deeply the anxiety so many of you feel around the issues related to the cost of prescription drugs, and I hope California’s efforts here can lead the way for other states to consider the same.”The proposal has drawn attention, and not just because California is the most populous state. It carries echoes of progressive talking points in Washington, where, just this week, a group of mostly Democratic lawmakers reintroduced a bill to allow the federal government to directly negotiate the price of drugs under Medicare. That proposal was one of a flurry of new bills aimed at drug prices.But like many other ideas to reduce them, Mr. Newsom’s proposal isn’t so simple or pioneering. For years, states have banded together to increase their leverage. Some aspects of Mr. Newsom’s proposal will require legislative approval. Others could require hard choices, like limiting access to some drugs.“We don’t know the details here, and the devil is always in the details,” said Trish Riley, the executive director of the National Academy for State Health Policy, a nonpartisan forum of policymakers. “If this is really as big as he wants it to be, I think it would be very difficult for the pharmaceutical industry to say no.”A spokeswoman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the drug industry’s main lobbying group, said it was awaiting more details about the proposal.Mr. Newsom’s decision, in one of his first actions, underscores how strongly the issue of drug costs resonates. Americans consistently rank them as one of their biggest health care concerns, and President Trump has made the topic a focus.Last year, his administration released a plan for lowering prices that so far has yielded little concrete change. Several large drug makers, including Pfizer and Allergan, raised prices this month, drawing rebukes on Twitter from Mr. Trump and Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services.But while little has changed at the federal level, states have become increasingly aggressive at tackling the issue. Several are considering permitting imports of cheaper prescription drugs from Canada.In New York, a law passed in 2017 permits officials to ask drug companies for a deeper discount if the Medicaid drug budget exceeds a certain amount. The new measure saved the state $175 million in the 2017-18 fiscal year, a spokesman for the state health department said.California has also tried to address the issue before. In 2016, voters defeated a measure — opposed by the drug industry — that would have prohibited the state government from paying more for drugs than the federal Department of Veterans Affairs, which gets mandatory discounts from manufacturers and negotiates for even steeper ones.In 2017, California passed a law that would require drug companies to give notice if they raised prices above a certain amount, a measure that the industry is challenging.“The momentum really hasn’t slowed, and we are likely to see states continuing to push, to look for ways to help manage drug costs,” said Dr. Steven D. Pearson, the president of the Institute for Clinical and Economic Review, which evaluates the cost effectiveness of drugs.Health experts said the main part of Mr. Newsom’s proposal — consolidating drug coverage for Medi-Cal beneficiaries — would be relatively straightforward and most likely save money. California has the country’s largest Medicaid population, but drugs for all but two million are covered by managed care plans, which are operated by private insurers that must negotiate with drug makers on their own.The hope is that pooling all the Medicaid recipients can lead to better deals. Under federal law, state Medicaid programs already get a rebate of at least 23 percent for prescription drugs. But many states, including California, negotiate for additional discounts.Several states already do what California has proposed, “carving out” some portion of their drug benefits and directly negotiating with manufacturers rather than allow their managed care plans to do so, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation.“I think it’s an example of what states can do now, under current law,” said Edwin Park, a research professor at the Georgetown Center for Children and Families.But simply banding together won’t solve every problem.“Lowering drug prices requires some kind of negotiated leverage over drug manufacturers, and generally the way you get that leverage is through the ability to say no to a particular drug,” said Larry Levitt, the senior vice president for health reform at the Kaiser Family Foundation. But Medicaid is required to cover nearly every drug, he said, so “that’s very difficult to do.”Medicaid programs, including in California, have instead imposed restrictions on certain drugs — such as requiring prior approval, or that another drug be tried first — to negotiate additional discounts. Massachusetts recently applied to the federal government for permission to limit the number of drugs its Medicaid program covers, but its request was denied.Nathan Click, a spokesman for Mr. Newsom, said that while the details were still being worked out, the plan could save up to $150 million in its first year and as much as $250 million in later years.Mr. Newsom’s executive order also directs the state to study how California’s disparate agencies, including those that pay state employees or buy drugs for prisoners, could negotiate jointly. It also orders officials to develop a plan for how private insurers and employers could benefit from the bulk purchasing deals negotiated by the state. That would require legislative approval, Mr. Click said.“Anything that strengthens the hand of purchasers, whether it’s state agencies or employers or consumers, is a good thing,” said Bill Kramer, executive director for national health policy at the Pacific Business Group on Health, which represents private employers and public agencies. “I think some of them, especially small employers, will jump at the chance.”Dr. Pearson said the fact that Mr. Newsom addressed drug prices on his first day in office showed what a priority it was.“It’s easy to say this isn’t the silver bullet,” he said. But “this is California — all the states do watch.”Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byA nasal spray version of the drug ketamine has shown promise as an antidepressant, even if its properties still aren’t well understood.By Benedict CareyOf the 16 million American adults who live with depression, as many as one-quarter gain little or no benefit from available treatments, whether drugs or talk therapy. They represent perhaps the greatest unmet need in psychiatry. On Tuesday, the Food and Drug Administration approved a prescription treatment intended to help them, a fast-acting drug derived from an old and widely used anesthetic, ketamine. The move heralds a shift from the Prozac era of antidepressant drugs. The newly approved treatment, called esketamine, is a nasal spray developed by Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc., a branch of Johnson & Johnson, that will be marketed under the name Spravato. It contains an active portion of the ketamine molecule, whose antidepressant properties are not well understood yet. “Thank goodness we now have something with a different mechanism of action than previous antidepressants,” said Dr. Erick Turner, a former F.D.A. reviewer and an associate professor of psychiatry at Oregon Health & Science University. “But I’m skeptical of the hype, because in this world it’s like Lucy holding the football for Charlie Brown: Each time we get our hopes up, the football gets pulled away.”The generic anesthetic is already increasingly available for depression, at hundreds of clinics around the country that provide a course of intravenous treatments, and studies suggest it can help treatment-resistant people. It often causes out-of-body and hallucinogenic sensations when administered; in the 1980s and 1990s it was popular as a club drug, Special K. The cost for these treatments typically is out of pocket, as the generic anesthetic is not approved by the F.D.A. for depression. In contrast, esketamine likely would be covered under many insurance plans, and its side effects, though similar to those of generic ketamine, are thought to be less dramatic. The recommended course of the newly approved drug is twice a week, for four weeks, with boosters as needed, along with  one of the commonly used oral antidepressants. F.D.A. approval requires that doses be taken in a doctor’s office or clinic, with patients monitored for at least two hours, and their experience entered in a registry; patients should not drive on the day of treatment. Esketamine, like ketamine, has the potential for abuse, and both drugs can induce psychotic episodes in people who are at high risk for them. The safety monitoring will require doctors to find space for treated patients, which could present a logistical challenge, some psychiatrists said. The cost for a one-month course of treatment will be between $4,720 and $6,785, said Janssen, and experts said it will give the company a foothold in the $12 billion global antidepressant market, where most drugs now are generic. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The approval of esketamine marks a new approach to treating serious mood problems, experts said. Prozac and similar drugs enhance the activity of brain messengers such as serotonin; they are mildly effective, but they take weeks or months for their effects to be felt, and for many patients they provide little or no relief from depression. In contrast, the ketamine-based compounds — several others are being developed — work within hours or days, and are effective in some people who are considered “treatment resistant,” meaning they have not benefited from other antidepressants.“These are exciting times, for sure,” said Dr. Todd Gould, an associate professor of psychiatry in the University of Maryland School of Medicine. “We have drugs that work rapidly to treat a very severe illness.” Dr. Gould was not involved in the Janssen study but has identified a metabolite, or ketamine breakdown product, that could be developed into another drug. Experts with long experience in treating depression were encouraged by the news, but also chary. The effectiveness of the previous class of antidepressants such as Prozac and Paxil was vastly exaggerated when they came on the market. And the results of esketamine trials, which were paid for and carried out by Janssen, were mixed.In each trial submitted, all patients were started on a new antidepressant drug, and given a course of esketamine treatment or a placebo. In one monthlong study, those on esketamine performed better statistically than those on placebo, reducing scores on a standard, 60-point depression scale by 21 points, compared to 17 points for placebo. But in two others trials, the drug did not statistically outperform placebo treatment. Historically, the F.D.A. has required that a drug succeed in two short-term trials before it is approved; the agency loosened its criteria for esketamine, opting instead to study relapse in people who did well on the drug.In that trial, Janssen reported that only about one-quarter of subjects relapsed, compared to 45 percent of subjects who received the placebo spray. All the subjects had been given a diagnosis of treatment-resistant depression, or T.R.D., having previously failed multiple courses of drug treatment. “We’ve had nothing new in 30 years,” said Steven Hollon, a professor of psychiatry and behavior sciences at Vanderbilt University. “So if this drug is an effective way to get a more rapid response in people who are treatment resistant, and we can use it safely, then it could be a godsend.”One question that will need to be answered is how well esketamine performs in comparison to intravenous ketamine. Theresa, 57, an adjunct professor of English in New York, who asked that her last name be omitted to protect her privacy, has lived much of her life with deep depression. She tried a course of I.V. generic ketamine last summer, at a local clinic, which  typically entails a half-dozen infusions, given over a couple of weeks, for about $500 apiece, with follow-up “booster” treatments as needed.“I remember floating, I was really high,” she said. “I was tripping on sounds, textures and shapes, that was very much a part of it.” The first infusion provided no relief, she said. But after the third or fourth, she noticed a satisfying “shift” in her underlying mood. “It’s a hard thing to describe. I was still anxious, but I felt somehow more solid, like something gelled within me, and my husband has noticed it, too.”Dr. Glen Brooks, the founder and medical director of NY Ketamine Infusions, a clinic in downtown Manhattan, said he has treated some 2,300 people, of all ages, with intravenous ketamine, the generic anesthetic. His clients had received a variety of diagnoses, including post-traumatic stress, anxiety, and obsessive-compulsive disorder, as well as depression.“What they all have in common is that other medications have failed,” Dr. Brooks, an anesthesiologist, said. “They’re hopeless, and they think, ‘Nothing else has worked, why should this?’” He said that, in his experience, the infusions quickly reduced symptoms for teenagers and young adults, but seemed to be less effective for people over 50.The data that Janssen presented to the F.D.A. likewise suggested that esketamine was less effective in people aged 65 and older, barely better than placebo treatment.Ketamine was developed more than five decades ago as a safer alternative to the anesthetic phencyclidine, or PCP, and is used worldwide, in operating rooms, on the battlefield and in pediatric clinics. The World Health Organization has listed ketamine as one of its essential medicines since 1985.By the 1990s, interest turned to the drug’s potential to combat depression, when a government scientist named Phil Skolnick argued that targeting glutamate pathways — the primary “excitatory,” or neuroactivating, brain processes — could produce antidepressant effects. In 2000, a team of researchers at Yale University and the Connecticut Mental Health Center, led by Dr. Robert M. Berman, reported that doses of ketamine provided quick relief to seven people with depression. The field took off in 2006, when a team at the National Institute of Mental Health led by Dr. Carlos Zarate Jr. reported that 18 treatment-resistant people who received the drug intravenously reported that their despair lifted within hours. “What seems remarkable is that the drug also seems to help domains other than depression, like anxiety, suicidal thinking, and anhedonia” — the inability to feel pleasure — said Dr. Zarate, chief of the N.I.M.H.’s experimental therapeutics and pathophysiology branch. “It seems to have more broad effects, on many areas of mood.” The apparent ability of ketamine to blunt suicidal thinking is particularly compelling, and Janssen is pursuing this indication for esketamine. In jails and psychiatry wards, suicide is an acute risk for people in crisis, and a fast-acting drug could save many lives, doctors said. For now, no one knows whether esketamine, or any of the other ketamine-based compounds being studied, are any more effective than the generic anesthetic itself — or, for that matter, whether the out-of-body and hallucinatory “side effects” are in fact integral to its antidepressant properties.“For that, we will need head-to-head studies,” Dr. Zarate said. “And we don’t have those yet.”AdvertisementSupported byResearchers combing through archives discovered that cigarette makers had applied their marketing wizardry to sweetened beverages and turned generations of children into loyal customers. By Andrew JacobsWhat do these ads featuring Joe Camel, Kool-Aid Man and the maniacal mascot for Hawaiian Punch have in common?All three were created by Big Tobacco in the decades when cigarette makers, seeking to diversify their holdings, acquired some of America’s iconic beverage brands. They used their expertise in artificial flavor, coloring and marketing to heighten the products’ appeal to children.That tobacco companies once sold sugar-sweetened drinks like Tang, Capri Sun and Kool-Aid is not exactly news. But researchers combing through a vast archive of cigarette company documents at the University of California, San Francisco stumbled on something revealing: Internal correspondence showed how tobacco executives, barred from targeting children for cigarette sales, focused their marketing prowess on young people to sell sugary beverages in ways that had not been done before.The archive, known as the Truth Tobacco Industry Documents, was created as part of a settlement between major cigarette companies and states that were seeking to recoup smoking-related health care costs. The researchers published their findings on Thursday in the medical publication BMJ.Using child-tested flavors, cartoon characters, branded toys and millions of dollars in advertising, the companies cultivated loyalty to sugar-laden products that health experts said had greatly contributed to the nation’s obesity crisis.At a time of mounting childhood obesity, with nearly a third of children in the United States overweight or obese and rates of type 2 diabetes soaring among adolescents, the study’s authors said it was important to chart how companies created and marketed junk food and sugary drinks to youngsters.“We have a chronic disease epidemic but we don’t understand the vectors very well,” said Laura A. Schmidt, an author of the study and a professor of health policy at U.C.S.F. School of Medicine. “These documents help us understand how food and beverage companies, using strategic and crafty tactics, got us hooked on unhealthy products.”R.J. Reynolds and Philip Morris no longer own the drink brands and declined to comment, as did the companies that later acquired the brands. Experts said tobacco executives had a keen appreciation for the importance of earning customer loyalty at an early age. Jennifer Harris, who studies corporate marketing at the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at the University of Connecticut, said introducing sweetened beverages to young children can have lifelong implications. “If a kid gets used to drinking Kool-Aid instead of water, they are always going to prefer a sugary beverage,” said Ms. Harris, who was not involved in the study. “And the advertising creates positive associations with these products in the minds of children.”Before its atomic red, sweet bouquet came to dominate school cafeterias and birthday parties nationwide, Hawaiian Punch was sold as a cocktail mixer for adults and came in only two flavors. After purchasing the brand in 1963 from the Pacific Hawaiian Products Company, R.J. Reynolds rebranded the beverage for children, according to company documents. Executives expanded the repertoire of flavors to 16, and discontinued Amber Apple, a product favored by mothers, after taste tests with children found they preferred Red Apple.The centerpiece of their marketing efforts was Punchy, a cheeky pugilist splashed across schoolbook covers, Sunday newspaper comics, drinking cups and branded wristwatches. In the 1960s and ’70s, Punchy made frequent appearances in television ads that touted the drink’s generous supply of vitamin C, but made no mention of the prodigious sugar content that kept children coming back for more. (Even today, Hawaiian Punch contains five percent fruit juice and a single serving has 14 grams of sugar — more than half the recommended daily limit for children.)In 1973, RJR World, the company’s in-house publication, extolled Punchy’s “instant eye-appeal” and described him as “the best salesman the beverage has ever had.”That same year, R.J. Reynolds introduced pop-top eight-ounce cans — “perfect for children,” according to company documents — that provided an alternative to the mammoth 46-ounce metal canisters that had to be punctured by a grown up, armed with a can opener.By the 1980s, the brand was pulling in $200 million annually, with growth fueled by the introduction of child-friendly juice boxes (“A handy little carton that comes with its very own straw,” promotional material said.) as well as Hawaiian Punch as a shelf concentrate, a frozen cylinder and powders that could be mixed with water.Dr. Schmidt, one of the study authors, said the marriage of tobacco companies and sweetened beverage brands was about more than marketing. Cigarette companies were frequently introducing new flavored products, and many of the chemicals that went into cherry-scented chewing tobacco and apple-flavored cigarettes found their way into children’s drinks. A 1985 company report attributed the success of Hawaiian Punch to R.J.R. scientists who had created “a beverage formula starting from our knowledge of flavors we already produce or have in our flavor library.” The goal, the report said “is to leave people wanting more.”Flush with cash, and with the prospect of government regulation mounting, cigarette companies accelerated their purchase of food and beverage companies. In 1985 Philip Morris, impressed by R.J.R.s success with Hawaiian Punch, applied the same marketing techniques to Kool-Aid, which it acquired when it bought General Foods, according to company documents.For decades, Kool-Aid had been sold in powder form as a cheaper alternative to soda, with ads aimed squarely at penny-pinching housewives. Philip Morris quickly shifted gears by halving its advertising budget for mothers to $10.7 million, and more than doubling the amount spent on children’s marketing to $6 million, according to company figures.“We’ve decided to focus our marketing on kids, where we know our strength is the greatest,” a company executive boasted at an industry conference in 1987. “This year, Kool-Aid will be the most heavily promoted kids trademark in America.”The mascot, Kool-Aid Man, was an anthropomorphized glass pitcher who was fond of crashing through walls and fences, sending terrified adults into goofy pratfalls.The following year, Philip Morris introduced a loyalty swag program, Wacky Wild Prize Warehouse, modeled on the Marlboro Country Store, which rewarded frequent smokers with branded camping gear, clothing and poker sets.In 1992, a Philip Morris marketing analysis described Wacky Warehouse — a collaboration with toy makers like Nintendo and Mattel — as “the most effective kid’s marketing vehicle known.” By then, Kool-Aid had expanded into a dizzying constellation of frozen pops, bursts, jammers and shots that came in dozens of flavors like Great Bluedini, PurpleSaurus Rex and colors that changed when mixed with water.The success with Kool-Aid persuaded Philip Morris it could apply the same marketing magic to Tang, the 1950s-era powdered drink that people of a certain age will recall as the beverage supposedly favored by astronauts. In 1996, Philip Morris, which inherited Tang from General Foods, declared the brand “as dead as the space program.”The solution: Rebrand Tang for young adolescents.The company unleashed a wave of television ads that positioned Tang as an “extreme orange breakfast drink for today’s extreme tweens.” The ads featured orangutans on motorcycles and sleepy teens zapped awake by a glass of sugary Tang. The company forged marketing arrangements with Sports Illustrated and Schwinn bicycles and created a loyalty program to rival the Wacky Warehouse.Tang ended up in the portfolio of the snack food giant Mondelez International, which owns such brands as Oreo, Cadbury and Nabisco. Tang may have lost some of its pizazz in the United States, but it still has broad appeal overseas, especially in the developing world, where it has been creating new flavors to appeal to local tastes. According to the company’s website, Tang brought in $900 million in 2016.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressA drug that's used to help control blood sugar in people with diabetes has now been shown to help prevent or slow kidney disease, which causes millions of deaths each year and requires hundreds of thousands of people to use dialysis to stay alive.Doctors say it's hard to overstate the importance of this study, and what it means for curbing this problem, which is growing because of the obesity epidemic.The study tested Janssen Pharmaceuticals' drug Invokana. Results were discussed Sunday at a medical meeting in Australia and published by the New England Journal of Medicine.About 30 million Americans and more than 420 million people worldwide have diabetes , and most cases are Type 2, the kind tied to obesity. It occurs when the body can't make enough or properly use insulin, which turns food into energy.This can damage the kidneys over time, causing disease and ultimately, failure. In the U.S., it's responsible for nearly half a million people needing dialysis, and for thousands of kidney transplants each year.Some blood pressure drugs lower this risk but they're only partially effective. The new study tested Invokana, a daily pill sold now to help control blood sugar, to see if it also could help prevent kidney disease when added to standard treatments.For the study, about 13,000 people with Type 2 diabetes and chronic kidney disease from around the world were to be given Invokana or dummy pills. Independent monitors stopped the study early, after 4,400 people had been treated for about 2.5 years on average, when it was clear the drug was helping.Those on the drug had a 30% lower risk of one of these problems — kidney failure, need for dialysis, need for a kidney transplant, death from kidney- or heart-related causes, or other signs that kidneys were failing.For every 1,000 people taking the drug for 2.5 years, there would be 47 fewer cases of one of these problems, researchers estimate.Rates of serious side effects were similar in the drug and placebo groups including leg, foot or toe amputations, a concern raised by a previous study of Invokana. One side effect, when the body can't produce enough insulin, was more frequent among those on Invokana but rare overall.Janssen, which is part of Johnson & Johnson, sponsored the study and many authors work or consult for the company. The drug costs about $500 a month in the U.S. Out-of-pocket costs for patients may be different, depending on insurance.The importance of this large and well-done study "cannot be overstated," Drs. Julie Ingelfinger and Clifford Rosen, editors at the medical journal, wrote in an accompanying article.In recent years, several studies have found that Invokana and some similar drugs can lower heart risks. The new results, showing that Invokana also may stall or prevent kidney failure, expand the potential benefits of the drug.___AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Benedict CareyExperimental brain scans of more than two dozen former N.F.L. players found that the men had abnormal levels of the protein linked to chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative brain disease associated with repeated hits to the head.Using positron emission tomography, or PET, scans, the researchers found “elevated amounts of abnormal tau protein” in the parts of the brain associated with the disease, known as C.T.E., compared to men of similar age who had not played football.The authors of the study and outside experts stressed that such tau imaging is far from a diagnostic test for C.T.E., which is likely years away and could include other markers, from blood and spinal fluid.The results of the study, published in The New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday, are considered preliminary, but constitute a first step toward developing a clinical test to determine the presence of C.T.E. in living players, as well as early signs and potential risk.Thus far, pathologists have been able to confirm the diagnosis only posthumously, by identifying the tau signature in donated brains.Previous studies had reported elevated levels of the tau signature in single cases. The new study is the first to compare the brains of a group of former players to a control group, using an imaging approach that specifically picks up tau and not other proteins in the brain.“What makes this exciting is that it’s a great first step for imaging C.T.E. in the living, not just looking at single instances, but comparing averages and looking for patterns by comparing groups,” said Kevin Bieniek, director of the Biggs Institute Brain Bank Core at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio.Dr. Bieniek was not involved in the study.Over the past decade, the competition for research dollars to investigate C.T.E. has become fierce and political, with charges of exaggerated claims and interference by the N.F.L., which has produced scientific reports to rebut any link between the disease and repeated head trauma.The group that develops the first useful clinical test stands to attract a surge of funding, not to mention potential commercial partnerships. At least one group, in California, has already formed a company to promote its own test.The new study was led by Dr. Robert Stern of Boston University, which thus far has the largest collection of donated brains from former pro football players. He led a coalition of investigators at multiple centers who took brain images from 26 former pro players, aged 40 to 69, who had a variety of memory, mood and mental problems associated with C.T.E.Those images showed marked elevation of tau proteins in the areas of the brain that display the tau signature when diagnosed post-mortem. The players’ tau signal in those areas was higher, on average, than the tau signal from a control group of men who had not played.“We found, as well, that the amount of abnormal tau detected in these PET scans was associated with the number of years playing football,” Dr. Stern said.His collaborators included brain scientists from the Mayo Clinic Arizona, Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Avid Radiopharmaceuticals. Avid makes a molecule, called a ligand, that binds to proteins, in this case in the brain. Avid’s ligand is the most studied of the so-called tau detectors, and the company helped finance the study.Experts said the findings were encouraging, because any reliable marker for abnormal tau accumulation would allow doctors not only to identify people with C.T.E., but also to monitor progress from potential drug treatments.But, these experts said, much more work is required to develop a reliable test for a disorder that is still not well understood. As in tests for people suffering from Alzheimer’s and other diseases that affect the brain, researchers have spent years trying to precisely refine the ligands that are ingested by patients before they receive PET scans and other imaging tests.There are also many open questions about the tau protein that is a signature of C.T.E. Researchers are trying to determine whether the protein, which occurs naturally in the brain, accumulates faster in people who have received repeated head trauma, and how those accumulating levels are related to behaviors associated with C.T.E., which include not only memory deficits but also impulse control issues and symptoms of depression.The new study found no correlation between the strength of the abnormal tau signature and the severity of cognitive and mood problems in the former players, though the sample was small.The search for a test for C.T.E. in living patients has received intense scrutiny since the disease was first discovered in deceased professional football players 15 years ago.The universe of professional players is relatively small — only about 2,000 active players and 20,000 retirees — and the Boston group’s work has been based on a sample of some of the worst cases. Many, perhaps most, pro football players do not develop disabling cognitive problems, and there are likely many other brain traumas that could potentially result in the C.T.E. tau signature.Yet football is by far the country’s most popular sport, with more than a million high school students playing the tackle version of the game. The detection of C.T.E. in former pro players turned what was viewed as an occupational hazard into a public health debate. For years now, parents, coaches, school administrators, doctors and others have engaged in a dispute over whether children should be allowed to play collision sports.Part of that dispute is trying to prove (or disprove) whether there is a direct link between exposure to repeated hits to the head absorbed in games like tackle football and the development of cognitive and neurological problems later in life.Here, the science is emerging. Studies by Dr. Stern and other researchers, including in the paper just released, suggest that there is a dose response — the more hits to the head, the more likely you are to develop problems later.But researchers have questioned studies that have shown a high percentage of deceased former football players found with C.T.E. They claimed that the research subjects were self-selected because the families of players who suspected they had brain disease were more likely to donate their brains to science.Some researchers are looking at broader populations of people who have had traumatic brain injury, not just football players, to determine whether participation in collision sports, as opposed to genetics or other factors, is linked to the development of C.T.E.“There’s a lot of lower-level head trauma out there that no one knows the consequence of,” said Dr. John Trojanowski, a research at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, who plans to submit a research paper in the coming months on people who have suffered traumatic brain injury. “We are looking at people with traumatic brain injury, football players, rugby players, some people who fell off bikes.”Even when tau is found in PET scans, many other questions remain.“Identifying the tau is just a first step,” said Dr. Alexander Powers, associate professor of neurosurgery, pediatrics and orthopedics at Wake Forest School of Medicine. “Is tau increasing in the brain? And what is the rate? Does it steadily increase? Or rapidly, like cancer? And what are the factors that led to it?”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCHICAGO — The number of young kids who went to U.S. emergency rooms because they swallowed toys, coins, batteries and other objects has nearly doubled, a new study says.In 2015, there were nearly 43,000 such visits among kids under 6, compared with 22,000 in 1995, according to the study published Friday in the journal Pediatrics. The rate jumped from almost 10 per 10,000 ER visits to 18 per 10,000.The increase "rang some alarms," said Dr. Danielle Orsagh-Yentis, the lead author and a gastrointestinal physician at Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio.Orsagh-Yentis noted that an increasing number of consumer products use potentially dangerous button-sized batteries, including TV remotes, digital thermometers and remote-controlled toys, which likely contributed to the increase.She said her interest in studying the trend began during her training, "when we were all being called in in the middle of the night at odd hours to remove foreign bodies from either the esophagus or stomachs of children."Her research team analyzed a nationwide database of non-fatal emergency room visits for children younger than age 6. Almost 800,000 children were treated during the study years after swallowing foreign objects. Coins, batteries and toys accounted for most of the visits.While 90% of treated children were sent home without hospitalization, severe internal injuries and deaths have been reported. Batteries and small high-powered magnets often marketed as desk toys for adults are among the most dangerous objects.When kids swallow more than one powerful magnet, the objects can attract each inside the intestines, boring holes into the abdomen that can lead to life-threatening blood poisoning.In recent years, the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission has issued safety warnings and orders to stop sales of some magnets, citing dozens of hospitalizations and at least one toddler death.The agency also has warned about dangers from button-sized batteries, which when swallowed can trigger a chemical reaction that can burn holes through tissue inside the throat.Children who swallow batteries or magnets may vomit or complain of abdominal pain. They "should be brought to the emergency room as quickly as possible," Orsagh-Yentis said.Morag Mackay of Safe Kids Worldwide, an injury prevention advocacy group, called for more research to understand why the incidents are on the rise. She said parents and caregivers need to be vigilant."Try to see the world from a child's point of view by getting on the floor so that you are at your child's eye level. Keep small objects such as coins, batteries, magnets, buttons or jewelry out of reach and sight," Mackay said.___Follow AP Medical Writer Lindsey Tanner on Twitter at @LindseyTanner .___The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all content.