AdvertisementSupported byDoctorsWe can help people at risk, but it is much more challenging if most people think that early detection and prevention are impossible.By Diane M. Simeone, M.D.Pancreatic cancer has a bad reputation. It is a terrible disease, but most people do not realize there are ways that early detection can help.When the “Jeopardy!” host, Alex Trebek, announced last week that he had Stage 4 pancreatic cancer, many people assumed that it was an automatic death sentence.Not Mr. Trebek.“I plan to beat the low survival rate statistics for this disease,” he said in a video. “Truth told, I have to. Because under the terms of my contract, I have to host ‘Jeopardy!’ for three more years.”He was trying to stay positive. But the more prevalent grim outlook even affects some doctors. Not long ago, an officer of the American Cancer Society said that there was no standard screening test for pancreatic cancer that is proven to save lives, noting that CT scans, which could help detect early cancers, carry risks of their own.But there are some less risky steps that may help you avoid getting pancreatic cancer.First, know your risk. Insist that your physician do a thorough and smart family history. If more than one person in your family has had pancreatic cancer, you should have your DNA examined in what we call a germ line test. The cost of germ line testing has plummeted in the past few years. If it is not covered by insurance, the out-of-pocket cost is now about $250. A sample of blood will tell you if a relevant mutation is present in all cells in the body.It will reveal whether you have a high enough risk of the disease that you should have annual pancreatic screening, typically covered by insurance — either an M.R.I. or a special kind of endoscopy called an endoscopic ultrasound, also called an EUS.If you have one of the BRCA genes that suggests a higher risk for pancreatic cancer, you should consider further testing; another sign of higher risk is the presence of melanoma and pancreatic cancer in one family.We have tended to underestimate the importance of genes in conferring risk. Too many people misunderstand genetic screening. They think that mutations in the BRCA gene are common only in people of Jewish ancestry and relate only to breast and ovarian cancer. In fact BRCA mutations are present in many ethnic groups and greatly increase the risk not only of breast and ovarian cancers, but also of pancreatic cancer.In the N.Y.U. pancreatic cancer clinic I run, we are performing germ line DNA testing on all pancreatic cancer patients, and we have found that 15 percent had a germ line mutation that probably contributed to their risk of developing the disease. Knowing that helps us tailor the treatment and helps identify siblings and children who might be at higher risk.For half the patients with pancreatic cancer who come to my clinic, I can’t identify a known risk factor. Risk factors we can control include smoking, drinking, obesity and Type 2 diabetes, which doubles the risk.Right now, pancreatic cancer is a relatively rare disease but the third leading cause of cancer deaths, because so few people survive. We aim to change that. We know we can help people at risk, but it is much more challenging if most people think that prevention and early detection are impossible.Screening of those at high risk is of demonstrated value. New studies show that if you screen someone and find something, the odds that you can do surgery are 80 to 90 percent. Most of those who do not get help until symptoms arise are unable to have lifesaving surgery. Without surgical resection, there is little hope of long-term survival. For all patients, the five-year survival rate is only 9 percent.But new chemotherapy regimens have helped patients live longer, and a few patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer in clinical drug trials have had long-term survival.Of course, we still need more ways to find this cancer earlier and better clinical trials to bring new, more effective therapies to patients. Pharmaceutical companies are trying to find new drugs for this disease, but they often will not pay for tumor biopsies at the beginning, middle and end of trials. These biopsies are the only way to learn why certain drugs are working and others are not.This is a tough cancer that not enough people have wanted to study, one that until recently didn’t receive much research funding. Cases of high-profile patients like Mr. Trebek help draw attention to the disease, but it’s also important to remember cases like that of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who had surgery for pancreatic cancer in 2009. She reportedly had no symptoms, but her cancer was found during a routine CT scan.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — In a major test case, Medicare is poised to cover a promising but expensive new type of cancer treatment, with significant restrictions meant to hold down the cost.Cancer patients, doctors and drug companies are urging the Trump administration to remove the restrictions and broaden coverage so more patients can benefit from the treatment, known as CAR T cell therapy, or CAR-T. But insurance companies are pushing for the restrictions.The treatment is manufactured specifically for each patient, and many more such “personalized medicines” are in the pipeline. Medicare’s final decision, expected in the next few weeks, will influence commercial insurers and state Medicaid programs, which often follow its lead.Medicare and other insurers typically pay for drugs as they are used, from month to month and year to year. By contrast, the CAR-T treatments generate high costs up front, but the benefits could last for years.The Food and Drug Administration has approved two CAR-T products to treat certain blood cancers: Kymriah, made by Novartis, with a list price of $373,000 or $475,000, depending on the type of cancer, and Yescarta, made by Gilead Sciences, with a list price of $373,000.The treatments have been remarkably effective in some patients who had a dismal prognosis after exhausting other options. Researchers around the country are conducting more than 450 clinical trials to explore other uses of CAR-T medicines that work in similar ways.The Trump administration has proposed covering CAR-T therapy when it is prescribed by a cancer specialist and given in a hospital to Medicare patients whose cancer has not responded to other treatments like chemotherapy and radiation. Medicare would also cover the treatment for patients whose cancer returns, causing a relapse after a period of improvement.Seema Verma, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, has described CAR-T as “an entirely new approach to treating serious and even life-threatening diseases.”Dr. Francis S. Collins, the director of the National Institutes of Health, said that harnessing the power of a patient’s immune system in this way was a “marvel of modern medicine.” But “because of the need to personalize the preparation of cells for every patient,” he said, “costs are quite high, and it could be truly challenging to scale up use of the technology.”Officials will increasingly confront such challenges as they try to ensure that Medicare beneficiaries have access to the latest treatments at an affordable cost.CAR-T therapy sounds like science fiction. Immune cells — T cells — are removed from a patient’s blood, sent to a laboratory where they are genetically engineered to recognize and attack cancer cells, and then sent back to the hospital for infusion into the patient.The total cost of treatment, including the CAR-T infusion, doctors’ services and hospital stays, can easily exceed $750,000.“This looks like a big price tag,” said Dr. Caron A. Jacobson, director of a cell therapy program at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. “But when you actually consider what you are paying for over the course of someone’s lifetime, and you think about the cost of other therapies that this is replacing, it actually is not astronomical.”There is no national Medicare policy for covering CAR T cell therapy. The request for a Medicare coverage decision came from one of the nation’s largest insurers, UnitedHealth Group, which expressed concern that “CAR-T therapies could create significant financial risks” for the government and for private Medicare Advantage plans.UnitedHealth is the largest provider of Medicare Advantage plans, with about five million people enrolled in its plans. The private plans receive a fixed monthly payment from the government to provide the full range of services covered by Medicare.America’s Health Insurance Plans, a trade group for insurers, also urged caution, saying, “There is currently limited evidence for CAR-T therapies.”But Bonnie Falbo of Charlottesville, Va., a caregiver for her 70-year-old husband, who has multiple myeloma, said: “This treatment is one that could save his life one day. Immunotherapy is the future of cancer care. Approving payment for this therapy right now will save the lives of patients who have run out of other options.”Advocates for patients and physician groups said the coverage policy proposed by the Trump administration was too limited and could delay lifesaving treatment for cancer patients who were very ill.“We have a new therapy, a result of years of research, and it has been approved by the F.D.A.,” said Kirsten A. Sloan, a vice president of the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network. “Let’s make sure people have access to it. Let the doctor decide which patients should be eligible. A patient’s health care provider is in the best position to determine when and whether a patient will benefit from CAR T cell therapy and should not be limited by a narrow coverage policy.”Ted Okon, the executive director of the Community Oncology Alliance, an advocacy group for cancer doctors and patients, said the coverage criteria proposed by the Trump administration were “much more restrictive” than the uses of CAR-T therapy permitted in the F.D.A.-approved label.Moreover, Mr. Okon said, coverage should not be limited to patients treated at a hospital, as the government proposed. “CAR-T treatment has been slowly moving to the outpatient setting,” he said. “Many community oncology practices have the experience and capabilities to administer CAR-T treatment, saving money for patients and Medicare.”Hospitals providing CAR-T therapy said they were trying to figure out how to pay for it.Charles N. Kahn III, the president and chief executive of the Federation of American Hospitals, which represents investor-owned hospitals, said they faced large financial losses in providing the treatment to Medicare patients.“This is a brave new world,” Mr. Kahn said. “No one anticipated such an extraordinary expense when Medicare’s hospital payment formulas were adopted.”Under the Trump administration proposal, Medicare would pay for CAR-T therapy in patients who have “relapsed or refractory cancer” that has resisted other treatments.“CAR T cell therapy shows promise,” the administration said in a 39,000-word decision memo, but “the evidence is inadequate to confidently conclude” that it will improve health outcomes for Medicare beneficiaries.To date, it said, “few clinical trials on CAR T cell therapy have been performed, and those data available have limited participation by Medicare beneficiaries.” More study is needed, it said.So Medicare would cover the procedure only if hospitals agreed to monitor patients, enroll them in a study or “registry” and report detailed data on their medical condition and quality of life for at least two years after treatment.Doctors and scientific researchers raised several concerns.The eligibility requirements “may exclude some patients who could benefit from treatment,” said Cynthia A. Bens, a senior vice president of the Personalized Medicine Coalition, an education and advocacy group.AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareCaregivers aren’t supported, and America overlooks their importance. By Aaron E. CarrollLast year, one of my best friends learned he had cancer. In many respects he was lucky. He had great insurance. He had enough money. Partly because one of his friends (me) is well connected in the health care system, he got excellent care.So this is not a story about how the system failed, or how people need insurance or access. He had those. He got the care. This is the United States health care system at its peak performance.But I was utterly floored by how hard it all was.Americans spend so much time debating so many aspects of health care, including insurance and access. Almost none of that covers the actual impossibility and hardship faced by the many millions of friends and family members who are caregivers. It’s hugely disrupting and expensive. There’s no system for it. It’s a gaping hole.My friend, Jim Fleischer, missed a few days of work as the diagnosis was made, then missed many more after surgery. His wife, Ali, had to take time off. His mother-in-law had to come and help take care of him and the children when Ali had to go back to work (she’s a teacher).Every appointment required Jim and Ali to take off work. They live in Indiana, and at one point they had to pay for flights and a hotel room and everything else associated with a trip to New York — none of it covered by insurance — because no one would do the second opinion remotely. (He had a kidney removed in an initial operation, then doctors found he had a rare cancer, a neuro-ectodermal tumor, instead of the expected renal cell carcinoma).Chemotherapy is rough. After each cycle, Jim would pretty much sleep or rest for a week, unable to work. Someone had to take the time to be with him. Sometimes it was Ali; sometimes it was my wife, or me, or other friends.Jim is the C.E.O. of an international fraternity, so his colleagues and employees are his “brothers.” They were more than willing to fill in and hold the fort as he missed about three months of work total, so far.By my count, other adults missed at least 30 days of work to get Jim to his appointments. The economic loss — the many months of work — is the least of it. Not included is all the strain that has been put on Jim’s relatives as they’ve shifted to care for him while still maintaining all the obligations and commitments any family of five has to deal with.Again, I should be clear that this is how the system works in optimal conditions for people with a lot of privilege. Jim is now in remission, although he’ll need to be monitored for some time. This isn’t a story of how things went wrong. And yet on many occasions I’ve wondered how Jim’s family pulled it off.If it was this hard for him, it’s probably unbearable for many others with fewer resources. People can be financially ruined by illness — and health insurance won’t fix that.Last year, it’s estimated that more than 1.7 million people faced a cancer diagnosis. The year before, America spent more than $147 billion caring for people with cancer. But that doesn’t include the costs outside of health care.This year, the National Cancer Institute will spend more than $5.7 billion on cancer research. Almost none of that will investigate how to support the families of those who have the disease.On social media, I sought out people who had survived cancer in the last few years and asked them if they’d had similar experiences. Most said yes.Dina Burns, a public affairs consultant from Granite Bay, Calif., learned she had Stage 2 breast cancer right before her 50th birthday. She missed four weeks of work for her operation and then two months for chemotherapy. But her support team collectively missed even more.“My sister came up from Orange County for my surgery,” she said. “She stayed with me for almost two weeks. My daughters (one in college and one in a new post-college job) both took turns caring for me. And my husband came with me for every appointment, every hospitalization, even the trips to San Francisco to see the congenital heart defect specialist. He would sit in the recovery bay with his laptop, trying to stay on top of work and take care of me at the same time. We still had a son at home in his senior year of high school, so my husband was trying to help minimize the impact on him, too.”Kevin O’Connor,  an intellectual property lawyer from Evergreen Park, Ill., and a father of four, was found to have Hodgkin’s lymphoma when he was 34. He missed about two weeks of work because of testing. His wife accompanied him to all his visits, and friends and family had to take over child care duties. He missed 18 days for chemo, which, again, his wife also attended.“We also needed to make sure that someone — usually a grandparent, aunt or uncle — was there to look after the kids,” he said. “During my six weeks of radiation after chemo, everyone had to juggle again.”Candice B., a disabled Maine resident who is 38 and has had multiple bouts of cancer since 2004, told me: “When I got sick, my mother stopped working entirely to help me get treatment. She lost at least three years of being in the work force over all.” Now, her best friend is responsible for getting her to her operations, she said, forcing him to miss some time at work.In a 2010 paper, researchers estimated the economic burden for caregivers of patients with lung and colorectal cancer. They reported that the average cost to a caregiver in the initial phase of treatment was more than $7,000. After treatment, almost an additional $20,000 was spent on “continuing” care. A study published in Cancer the year before found that over a two-year period, caregiving costs were more than $72,000 for lung cancer, $66,000 for ovarian cancer, $59,000 for lymphoma, and $38,000 for breast cancer.The American Cancer Society’s page offers a lot of sympathy for caregivers in these situations, but it acknowledges that for many, there really aren’t any solid solutions other than asking for help from those around you.As I learned, treating someone with cancer takes a team of supporters. But everything I’ve written here could easily apply to those with a host of other illnesses and chronic conditions. Policies that address this issue are rare.In the United States, the Family and Medical Leave Act guarantees up to 12 workweeks of leave to care for a family member with a serious health problem. But that leave is unpaid; many people can’t afford not to work. It also applies only to a spouse, child or parent.Moreover, the Family and Medical Leave Act applies only to employees of companies with 50 employees or more, which leaves out about 40 percent of the work force.What about other nations? An Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development report from 2011 surveyed members, and found that even in the three-quarters of countries that had some form of paid leave, it was for no more than a month.AdvertisementSupported byFor six of the 12 obesity-related cancers (multiple myeloma, colorectal, uterine, gallbladder, kidney and pancreatic) the risk for disease increased in adults 25 to 49.By Nicholas BakalarThe risk of developing obesity-related cancer is increasing in successive generations, along with increasing rates of obesity.Researchers studied the incidence of 30 of the most common cancers, including 12 that are obesity related, from 1995 to 2014 in people ages 25 to 84 — more than 14.6 million cases. The study is in Lancet Public HealthUsing five-year age cohorts, they found that for six of the 12 obesity-related cancers (multiple myeloma, colorectal, uterine, gallbladder, kidney and pancreatic) the risk for disease increased in adults 25 to 49, with the magnitude of the increases steeper with younger age.For example, compared with people born in 1950, those born in 1985 had a risk of multiple myeloma 59 percent higher, and a risk of pancreatic cancer more than twice as high at comparable ages.AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is cancer free and on the mend after her recent surgery for the disease, a Supreme Court spokeswoman said on Friday.“Her recovery from surgery is on track,” the spokeswoman, Kathleen Arberg, said in a statement. “Post-surgery evaluation indicates no evidence of remaining disease, and no further treatment is required.”Justice Ginsburg, 85, underwent surgery in late December to remove two nodules from her left lung. She missed this week’s arguments, and will be absent from the bench next week, too, Ms. Arberg said.“Justice Ginsburg will continue to work from home next week and will participate in the consideration and decision of the cases on the basis of the briefs and the transcripts of oral arguments,” Ms. Arberg said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt RichtelCancer immunotherapy drugs, which spur the body’s own immune system to attack tumors, hold great promise but still fail many patients. New research may help explain why some cancers elude the new class of therapies, and offer some clues to a solution.The study, published on Thursday in the journal Cell, focuses on colorectal and prostate cancer. These are among the cancers that seem largely impervious to a key mechanism of immunotherapy drugs.The drugs block a signal that tumors send to stymie the immune system. That signal gets sent via a particular molecule that is found on the surface of some tumor cells.The trouble is that the molecule, called PD-L1, does not appear on the surface of all tumors, and in those cases, the drugs have trouble interfering with the signal sent by the cancer.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The new study is part of a growing body of research that suggests that even when tumors don’t have this PD-L1 molecule on their surfaces, they are still using the molecule to trick the immune system.Instead of appearing on the surface, the molecule is released by the tumor into the body, where it travels to immune system hubs, the lymph nodes, and tricks the cells that congregate there.“They inhibit the activation of immune cells remotely,” said Dr. Robert Blelloch, associate chairman of the department of urology at the University of California, San Francisco, and a senior author of the new paper.The U.C.S.F. scientists discovered that they could cure a mouse of prostate cancer if they removed the PD-L1 that was leaving the tumor and traveling to the lymph nodes to trick the immune system. When that happened, the immune system attacked the cancer effectively.Furthermore, the immune system of the same mouse seemed able to attack a tumor later even when the drifting PD-L1 was reintroduced. This suggested to Dr. Blelloch that it might be possible to train the immune system to recognize a tumor much the way a vaccine can train an immune system to recognize a virus.The work was done not in humans but in laboratory experiments and in mice, and it is not clear whether the results will translate in people. Dr. Ira Mellman, vice president of cancer immunology at Genentech, called the findings “a most interesting result.”“But as with all mouse experiments, you get insight into basic mechanisms, but how it translates to the human therapeutic setting is unclear,” said Dr. Mellman. He is skeptical, he said, but plans to meet shortly with Dr. Blelloch to discuss the implications of the work.The new research dovetails with other recent studies, including a paper published last year in the journal Nature that showed that PD-L1 molecules released from skin cancer tumors can suppress the body’s immune function.When these bits of PD-L1 travel outside the cell, they are known as exosomal, and the discovery of their role is one of many fast-moving developments refining an area of medicine that has become among the most promising in decades.Late last year, the Nobel Prize was awarded to two scientists — James P. Allison of the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, and Tasuku Honjo of Kyoto University in Japan — who did groundbreaking work in immunotherapy.An explosion of additional research is aimed not only at refining the therapies — which can have profound side effects — but also at searching for other molecules involved in the perilous dance between cancer and the immune system.AdvertisementSupported byLiving With CancerAfter too many cancer-related setbacks and deaths I started belting Nina Simone’s protest with new words, invigorated by her spirit of indignant fury.By Susan GubarTwo women in my cancer support group died last year; both were considerably younger than I am. Furious at the disease, I’m starting the new year with a yowl.Survivors of patients who have not survived, people dealing with a terminal condition, and their caregivers are generally advised to seek acceptance. However, great artists of anger have taught us how cathartic a rousing roar can be, especially when the object of rage is not a conjured scapegoat but a clear and present danger. One of the greatest of those artists in living memory — the singer, pianist, composer Nina Simone — lambasted the disasters of American racism. Does she have something to teach those of us dealing with cancer-related tragedies?In 1963, after the killings of Medgar Evers and of four little girls in the bombing of the 16th Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Ms. Simone began producing a number of anthems for the civil rights and black power movements. One of her most powerful songs continues to be all too relevant.The lyrics of “Mississippi Goddam,” I thought, might serve me while cancer’s casualties stun me. By tweaking Nina Simone’s words, would I implicitly be comparing rampant racism to metastatic disease or vice versa? I could live with that analogy, as Susan Sontag — the public intellectual who rejected all metaphors of illness — once did.Ms. Simone reinvented other refrains created by writers of many different ethnicities and nations, shaping them to her purposes. In doing so, she has emboldened me to recycle some of her stanzas for people from diverse backgrounds who live with cancer. When borrowing is acknowledged, after all, imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.Here, then, is a homage to Nina Simone that I hope will lead you to listen to her terrific rendition of “Mississippi Goddam.” In an aside within this edgy elegy of damaged lives, she calls it “a show tune, but the show hasn’t been written for it yet.” I also feel as if I have been watching a show that hasn’t been written yet.After too many cancer-related setbacks and deaths of relatives, friends, and correspondents — you readers could not be more moving about your own bereavements — I started belting Nina Simone’s protest with new words, invigorated by her spirit of indignant fury. When cancer feels like an epidemic, it may be easier to rage than to mourn, as all of us undoubtedly will, over rending losses.Carcinoma GoddamMyeloma’s got me so upsetLeukemia’s made me lose my rest And everybody knows about carcinoma goddam.Metastatic breast has gotten me upset Mesothelioma made me lose my rest And everybody knows about pancreatic goddam.Can’t you see it? Can’t you feel it? It’s all in the air I can’t stand the pressure much longer Somebody say a prayer.Prostatic got me all upsetGlioblastoma’s made me lose my restAnd everybody knows about ovarian goddam.Scans and tests on my trailKids cry and mates flail. White cat crossed my path I think every day’s gonna be my last.Lord have mercy on this land of mine Will we all get it in due time? People gone here, People gone there, I’ve even stopped believing in prayer.Don’t tell meI’ll tell you — Me and my tribe are just about due. I’ve been there so I submit They keep on saying “Beat it!”But that’s just the trouble “Beat it!”Taking the chemo “Beat it!” Hospital city “Beat it!” It’s just plain misery “Beat it!” You’re too damned hazy “Beat it!” The thinking’s crazy “Beat it!”Where am I going?What am I doing? I don’t know I don’t know.Bankruptcy Insurance holdups — Trying to say they’re just mix-ups. All I want is equality For my sister, my brother, my people and me.Oh this whole country’s full of lies. Are we all gonna die and die like flies? I’ve been there so I’m in a snit They keep on saying “Beat it!”But that’s just the trouble “Beat it!” Reoperations “Beat it!” Focused radiations “Beat it!” Frozen ablations “Beat it!” Do things gradually “Beat it!” But bring more tragedy. “Beat it!” Why don’t you see it? Why don’t you feel it? I don’t know, I don’t know.You probably live next door to me. You may have a child not cancer-free. AdvertisementSupported byThe highest rates of weight-associated cancer are in the South, the Midwest, Alaska and Washington, D.C.; the lowest were in the Mountain States, New England and Hawaii.By Nicholas BakalarMore than 7 percent of cancer cases in the United States are attributable to excess body weight, a new study reports.Previous studies have established an association between body fat and at least a dozen cancers, with the highest risks for liver, uterine and esophageal cancers.The new report, in JAMA Oncology, found that from 2011 to 2015, among people 30 and older, 4.7 percent of cancers in men and 9.6 percent of those in women were attributable to excess weight — some 37,670 cancers in men, and 74,690 in women every year.The highest rates of weight-associated cancer are in the South, the Midwest, Alaska and Washington D.C.; the lowest were in the Mountain States, New England and Hawaii. More than 8 percent of cancers in Texas and Washington, D.C., are associated with body fatness, but only 6 percent in Colorado and 5.9 percent in Hawaii.AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Mimi SwartzTHE BREAKTHROUGH Immunotherapy and the Race to Cure Cancer By Charles Graeber Illustrated. 302 pp. Twelve. $28.If someone were to give cancer a human face, it would probably be that of an archvillain in a comic book series — a master of evil who can adapt at will to any attack, lurking lethally in the shadows, shifting its shape and location, resistant to almost any weaponry humans devise. At least, that has been the story until very recently; the new book by Charles Graeber, “The Breakthrough: Immunotherapy and the Race to Cure Cancer,” artfully traces the history of old and new developments that may have — finally — resulted in an actual cure for the most dreaded of all diseases. If you or a loved one has recently received a cancer diagnosis, or has been living with it as a chronic, if terrifying, condition, this book and the advances it describes offer far more than the usual glimmer of hope.Immunotherapy essentially involves training the body’s own immune system to fight the disease. It’s an idea that scientists have been exploring since the end of the 19th century, when a Harvard-trained surgeon named William Coley met a vivacious young woman with a painful lump on her hand, swollen to half the size of an olive. Coley found and cut out a mass, but it grew back. Eventually it was found to be a sarcoma, a form of cancer that was already racing through his young patient’s body. She died at 17.Disturbed by her death and determined to find another way to treat cancer, Coley began searching through his hospital’s medical records. He soon came upon the case of a sad sack German immigrant named Fred Stein. Stein had been hospitalized in 1885 with an egg-size mass bulging from his left cheek; every time he was operated on — five times in the next three years — it came back stronger until it was, in Graeber’s words, “as big as a man’s fist.” Like many patients who endured frequent hospitalizations, Stein also contracted streptococcus pyogenes, which caused high fever, chills, inflammation and, far too often, death. (Its old name, dating back to the Middle Ages, was St. Anthony’s Fire.)Stein appeared to be yet another doomed patient, but his doctors noted an interesting coincidence: Each time he developed a high fever, his tumors began to shrink. “Four and a half months later both the infection and the cancer were gone, and Stein walked out of the hospital,” Graeber writes.In what could have been an episode of “The Knick,” Coley roamed the poverty-ridden Lower East Side until he tracked down Stein, “a tall, gaunt man with the glandular severity of an Old Testament hermit.” Now Coley had a question: Why had Stein lived while his patient died, when both had, in his mind, experienced the same disease and the same treatment? Coley determined the difference was that Stein’s fever had somehow enlisted his immune system as a cure.That moment could have signaled the beginning of the field of immunotherapy and, perhaps, the beginning of a new way to fight cancer — but no one else in the medical field bought it. Instead, as Graeber points out, Coley was relegated to quackdom, and the conventional, respectable treatments for cancer remained those of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation — “cut, burn and poison” in the words of the author and the medical establishment he writes about. It is simplistic but probably accurate to say that most cancer research went in the wrong direction early and stayed there: The conventional wisdom held that it was best to attack the disease instead of looking for ways to help the body heal itself.Graeber, then, tells an untold story that runs parallel to Siddhartha Mukherjee’s erudite 2011 cancer history, “The Emperor of All Maladies.” Immunotherapy — teaching the immune system to attack cancer — was barely even acknowledged when that book was published. In highlighting it now, “The Breakthrough” relates an unfolding and very frustrating mystery. Researchers have come tantalizingly close to beating the disease — even creating miraculous cures in mice and the occasional human — only to come up against another harrowing complexity in the body they hadn’t imagined or anticipated. Over the years, these scientists became like a platoon that could get itself behind enemy lines, only to find itself without weapons. Returning with weapons, they would find they had no bullets. Returning with bullets, they would discover they had the wrong kind, and so on. “The Breakthrough” is the story of this desperate war waged on a cellular level.Like many medical stories, it isn’t an easy one to tell, thanks to an unlimited supply of jargon and scientific terms that can cause a migraine in the average reader. (“PD-LI seemed to be involved in a different type of T cell inhibition. It wasn’t the activation phase. PD-I/PD-LI seemed to stop T cell attack long after they had been activated.”) Graeber does a good job of hacking through it all, interspersing the medical research with interesting accounts of patients and their determined physicians. One of the most fascinating stories involves the eccentric and highly confident James P. Allison, once an outsider from the small Texas town of Alice, who went on to discover how T cells could be programmed to fight cancerous tumors. Graeber describes him as looking like a cross “between Jerry Garcia and Ben Franklin … a basic science researcher happy to be wrong 99 times to be right once.”Graeber also thoughtfully provides the reader with a two-page glossary in the front and extensive notes in back, including a Cliffs Notes-type section called “The Breakthrough, in Brief” and a jaunty one after it entitled “A Brief Anecdotal History of Disease, Humans, and the Quest for Immunity.” A discerning reader might wish for a better-crafted book, with much of this information woven into the text itself, but it’s a debatable point; you wouldn’t want it to get in the way of the story, and it probably would.AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie ThomasDr. John Mendelsohn, who led the prestigious University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center through an era of substantial growth, and who, as a scientist, helped pioneer a new type of cancer therapy, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Houston. He was 82.His death was confirmed by MD Anderson, which said the cause was glioblastoma, an aggressive form of brain cancer.Dr. Mendelsohn was the cancer center’s third president, serving from 1996 to 2011, a period in which MD Anderson rose in prominence to be considered the nation’s top cancer hospital. At the same time, its annual revenues quadrupled, to $3.1 billion.“He was an extraordinary scientist, he was a compassionate individual, he was a strategic thinker, and he was able to bring all of those capabilities to bear as an exceptional leader of MD Anderson,” Dr. Peter Pisters, the center’s president, said in a telephone interview.Dr. Mendelsohn began his career as a researcher. He made his name in the 1980s at the University of California, San Diego, where he developed cetuximab, the first so-called targeted cancer therapy, which blocks receptors on cancer cells to halt their growth. The drug was approved by the federal government in 2004 and is sold by Eli Lilly as Erbitux, for the treatment of colorectal, head and neck cancers.Erbitux and other targeted therapies were seen as breakthroughs for cancer patients because, unlike older chemotherapy drugs, which typically kill all rapidly dividing cells, targeted treatments go after the proteins that help cancer cells grow and survive.John Mendelsohn was born in Cincinnati on Aug. 31, 1936, the son of Joe and Sarah (Feibel) Mendelsohn. After graduating from Walnut Hills High School in Cincinnati, he studied at Harvard, earning his undergraduate degree in biochemical sciences in 1958.He married Anne Charles, a research chemist at Polaroid, in 1962.After a year in Scotland as a Fulbright scholar at the University of Glasgow, Dr. Mendelsohn attended Harvard Medical School, earning his degree in 1963. Residency training at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston followed, as did fellowships at the National Institutes of Health and at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis.In 1970, Dr. Mendelsohn joined the U.C. San Diego School of Medicine, where, in addition to helping to develop Erbitux, he became the founding director of the institution’s cancer center.He left San Diego in 1985 to become chairman of the department of medicine at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York, and spent more than a decade there until he took the job as president of MD Anderson in 1996.Dr. Pisters said that when Dr. Mendelsohn arrived in Houston, MD Anderson did not have the physical size or reputation it has today. But, he added, “It did have what he could see as remarkable potential.”Dr. Mendelsohn’s career was not without controversy. In 2002, he was criticized as having failed to identify problems as a board member at two troubled companies, the energy giant Enron and the biotech company ImClone Systems.In the case of Enron, Dr. Mendelsohn served on the board’s audit committee despite having little financial experience; the company, which filed for bankruptcy in 2001, was later found to have used a series of questionable accounting practices to make it seem more profitable than it was.The ImClone scandal involved allegations of insider trading after the company’s stock plummeted in the wake of news in late 2001 that its lead drug, Erbitux, the drug Dr. Mendelsohn had developed, had not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration. The company’s founder, Samuel D. Waksal, was arrested on charges of insider trading after prosecutors said he told friends and family to sell their stock. (The lifestyle maven Martha Stewart was famously ensnared in that scandal.)Dr. Mendelsohn was not accused of wrongdoing in either case. But he came under scrutiny at ImClone in particular because he held dual roles as a member of the company’s board and as a paid scientific consultant. Lilly acquired ImClone in 2008.Dr. Mendelsohn’s role in the development of Erbitux also came into question in 2002, after The Washington Post reported that patients in a clinical trial of Erbitux at MD Anderson had not been informed that, as head of the cancer center, Dr. Mendelsohn held a financial stake in the drug’s success. The hospital changed its policies to ensure that patients were told of such conflicts.Dr. Mendelsohn survived the scandals, bolstered in part by the support of powerful Houston figures like former President George H. W. Bush, who was an enthusiastic backer of MD Anderson.Indeed, Dr. Mendelsohn’s ability to befriend all types of people, from patients and fellow researchers to the leaders of Houston society, helped elevate MD Anderson’s profile. His wife, Anne C. Mendelsohn — who became an educator and a producer of science documentary films — was a key partner, joining him in his social and philanthropic work.“They raised billions of dollars together,” said Jeffrey Mendelsohn, the middle of the Mendelsohns’ three sons. “As their lives evolved and my father got more and more prominent positions, she dedicated more and more of her life to working with him.”During Dr. Mendelsohn’s last five years as president, MD Anderson was recognized as the top cancer center in the country by U.S. News & World Report, surpassing Memorial Sloan Kettering.In a telephone interview, Dr. Mendelsohn’s sons — the two others are Andrew and Eric — credited his success to a ravenous curiosity that did not stop at the boundaries of science or medicine. He was an enthusiastic traveler, they said, and loved good meals, opera and all kinds of books.Andrew Mendelsohn, his eldest son, recalled that when he went to college, his father would quiz him on the courses he was taking. The next time he returned home, “there would be six books on the subject, full of underlines,” he said.“He was always trying to distill the essence of a book or a person or a moment,” he added.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressATLANTA — Tom Smith hesitated to buy light bulbs guaranteed for up to 10 years, thinking they'd outlast him. Terry Langbaum debated filling a prescription for a $13,000-a-month drug that keeps cancer from worsening for three months on average and carries six pages of warnings."There are so many of us living with cancers that can't be cured," Langbaum said. "We study the treatments but we don't study what it's like to be the person going through treatment."Millions of people live with metastatic cancer — disease that has spread through the body and is considered incurable. They are surviving longer as treatments improve, often seeing cancer subside and flare again and again. Now many are pushing to be included more widely in research and to have it focus more on the patient's point of view."It's really about time that happened," said Dr. Elizabeth Jaffee, deputy director of Johns Hopkins University's Sidney Kimmel Cancer Center. Patients should be asked what side effects and risks they'll accept, "not just treated as research subjects," she said.Jaffee is president of the American Association for Cancer Research, and its annual meeting this week in Atlanta featured many talks on the need for involving patients more in metastatic cancer research. Smith is a doctor and palliative care chief at Hopkins who is being treated for metastatic prostate cancer. Langbaum is a Hopkins administrator who developed three other cancers from radiation treatments for her first one 37 years ago. Smith and Langbaum wrote about their experiences Wednesday in the New England Journal of Medicine.Guidelines on how cancer survivors should be monitored later in life often assume the disease is in remission rather than still being treated, they wrote. Many patients now live for years with advanced cancer: Sixteen percent of people with widely spread lung cancer survive five years. Patients wonder if they should have genetic testing, how they'll deal with the cost of long treatment and whether their doctors can keep up with the latest discoveries."We could also use some guidance even on seemingly irrelevant health decisions," such as whether it's worth it to be tested for other medical conditions or to take a cholesterol-lowering medicine "when you don't even know if you should take a chance on purchasing airline tickets for a summer vacation," Smith and Langbaum wrote .Smith said hormone therapy and dozens of radiation treatments for his prostate cancer caused extreme fatigue. A marathoner, he said he "went from somebody who could run 50 miles, or 26 miles, to somebody who gets short of breath going up the stairs.""I've got terrible sleep, hot flashes every 45 minutes," mood swings and depression, he said. Last summer, "I actually admitted myself to the hospital so I wouldn't kill myself."A good psychiatrist, help from his family and a support group, and a new antidepressant have helped.When she was 34, Langbaum was treated for Hodgkin lymphoma with radiation that led to breast and stomach cancers in later years. Two years ago, doctors found an unusual and inoperable soft tissue cancer called a sarcoma between her throat and windpipe. She said she has lived "in this constant fear of the other shoe dropping."Billy Foster, a jazz pianist and radio show host from Gary, Indiana, who spoke at the Atlanta conference as a patient advocate, talked about the uncertainty cancer patients live with. Foster had a cancerous kidney removed in 1996, but in 2007 learned the disease had spread to his lungs, liver and brain."They say if you go five years, you're kind of in the clear," but that's often not true, Foster said. He joined a study testing an experimental drug that helped him for five years until the company abandoned it."It wasn't working for enough people but it was saving my life," Foster said. His doctor persuaded the company to keep making the drug for him for another year, long enough for a new drug to come out that seems to be keeping his cancer in check.Several studies are examining "what allows some people to live a very long time with incurable cancer," said Dr. Mark Burkard, who is leading one at the University of Wisconsin in Madison for breast cancer. Around 750 women have given extensive details on their treatments and lifestyles, and tumor samples are being analyzed for genetic clues.Langbaum and Smith say they are focusing on living. She filled the prescription she'd been debating. He bought the long-lasting light bulbs."I figured, even if I can't enjoy them, the next person who lives in our house might," he said.___Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byPersonal HealthDr. Google doesn’t always know what’s best.By Jane E. BrodyWhen faced with an actual or potential diagnosis of cancer, most people are inclined to consult Dr. Google, often before they see a real live medical expert. Unfortunately, Dr. Google doesn’t always know what’s best.A generation ago, patients were largely dependent upon the physicians they consulted as to how best to deal with a disease like cancer. Nowadays there’s the internet, replete with a virtual tsunami of information offered by all kinds of sources, from experts equipped with evidence-based facts to people selling products or outright quackery. The trick is to know how to tell the difference, especially since the disparate guidance provided can become a matter of life or death.“It’s easy for people to land on a site filled with misinformation that leads them to make decisions that may not be in their best interests,” Dr. Lidia Schapira, medical oncologist at Stanford University Medical Center, told me. She is editor of the very reliable site, www.cancer.net, that provides clear, scientifically vetted information about cancer and its treatment for patients, their families and friends.As a specialist in breast cancer, Dr. Schapira has treated women who decline postoperative therapy with a drug like tamoxifen or an aromatase inhibitor because they read on the web that the treatments are harmful, despite extensive studies showing they can help prevent a breast cancer recurrence. “The conviction about harm is an emotional reaction, and it’s very difficult for a doctor to talk facts through emotions,” she said.As the American Cancer Society cautions, “The wrong information can hurt you when it comes to cancer. A lot of what passes for cancer information on the internet is made up of opinion, salesmanship, and testimonials and is not grounded in careful science. Anyone can post any kind of information online, and some people may be passing along information that’s limited, inaccurate or just plain wrong. Some even try to deceive you.”Worried about an unexplained symptom? The internet offers about two dozen “symptom checkers,” and patients can actually freak themselves out by searching the web for their symptoms and finding cancer as a possible cause. Just about any symptom, from a persistent cough to chronic constipation, can be caused by cancer, but a qualified doctor can readily rule out cancer with a proper medical examination and review of a patient’s personal and family history.Last year in The Hartford Courant, Dr. David W. Wolpaw, a family physician in Manchester, Conn., described a man in his 20s with a weekslong sore throat who had done an internet search and thought he had oral cancer. The doctor reported that the man lacked risk factors for cancer, and an exam showed he had nothing worse than a cold.“People shouldn’t expect a website to replace their physician,” Dr. Wolpaw wrote. In addition to having completed many years of education and hands-on experience, “your doctor knows you, your medical history, family history, risk factors, etc., much better than the internet,” he added. Furthermore, he wrote, “sites can look trustworthy even when they post information not supported by scientific evidence.”People looking for the latest iteration of snake oil will surely find it on the web. Steer clear! The cancer society cautions to beware of any postings that make claims like “scientific breakthrough,” “secret ingredient,” “miraculous cure” or ancient remedy,” as well as products offering money-back guarantees, available from only one source or said to cure a wide range of ailments.That said, people facing cancer often can glean valuable information and support through the internet. “The internet can be a tool that can give people access to good scientifically vetted information,” Dr. Schapira said. “It can help patients be better prepared for a consultation with an expert. And after such a consultation, they can check on the wisdom of the advice they got.”She suggests relying on web-based resources that are free of commercial interests. Even sites posted by medical institutions can be self-promoting. In addition to www.cancer.net, which is prepared by members of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, Dr. Schapira recommended information offered by the American Cancer Society (www.cancer.org) and the National Cancer Institute (www.cancer.gov), as well as the free patient-oriented arm of a site called UpToDate that translates into lay terms the best available information that doctors get. The cancer institute notes that the three letters attached to a site’s domain name can give people insight into the independence and validity of information it contains; best to choose .edu or .gov over .com.In addition to providing valuable information and guidance to trustworthy sources, the internet can help patients glean psychosocial support through online groups. In a review of 170 studies of patients who use information technology, Danielle Gentile of the Levine Cancer Institute of Atrium Health in Charlotte, N.C., and her co-authors found that social media communities can be very helpful to cancer patients, especially those who lack personal social support. Cancer patients can converse with others, anonymously or otherwise, about emotional and spiritual issues and glean helpful firsthand tips on dealing with treatment-related issues.But while some online communities “are curated by medical professionals, others may be posted by people who have no scientific knowledge,” Dr. Schapira cautioned. The information patients glean through such lay communities is best discussed with their doctors lest they be led down the garden path of bad advice.She also suggested that patients not be pressured to research their cancers until and unless they are emotionally and intellectually ready to deal with the information they uncover.“It may be better to let others look things up,” she said. “Different people need different information at different times. Some people are not ready to absorb all the information upfront, and that’s completely normal. Some want to receive the information but leave decisions to the experts, while others want to have a hand in making the decisions.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheila KaplanWASHINGTON — Dr. Norman E. (Ned) Sharpless, director of the National Cancer Institute, will serve as acting commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, Alex M. Azar III, secretary of health and human services, announced on Tuesday.Dr. Sharpless temporarily will fill the post being vacated by Dr. Scott Gottlieb, who stunned public health experts, lawmakers and consumer groups last week when he abruptly announced that he was resigning for personal reasons.Dr. Sharpless has been director of the cancer center, part of the National Institutes of Health, since October 2017. He is also chief of the aging biology and cancer section in the National Institute on Aging’s Laboratory of Genetics and Genomics. His research focuses on the relationship between aging and cancer, and development of new treatments for melanoma, lung cancer and breast cancer.“Dr. Sharpless’s deep scientific background and expertise will make him a strong leader for F.D.A.,” said Mr. Azar, in a statement. “There will be no let up in the agency’s focus, from ongoing efforts on drug approvals and combating the opioid crisis to modernizing food safety and addressing the rapid rise in youth use of e-cigarettes.”Like many previous F.D.A. commissioners, Dr. Sharpless, 52, has had a long career as an academic. Before his appointment to the cancer institute, he had served as director of the University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, a position he held since 2014.Dr. Sharpless attended medical school at the University of North Carolina, and did his residency at Massachusetts General Hospital, followed by a fellowship at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute. He first became a professor at the University of North Carolina’s medical school in 2002. In addition to his academic work, and his more recent job at the cancer center, Dr. Sharpless is a founder of G1 Therapeutics, a publicly traded biotechnology company that is a developer of cancer treatments. He divested all stocks from the company when he became director of the cancer institute, according to Jeff Macdonald, a spokesman for the company.He will begin the job in early April, Mr. Azar said, after the departure of Dr. Gottlieb, who has been commissioner since May 2017.Although Dr. Sharpless has been previously mentioned as a possible successor to Dr. Gottlieb, Mr. Azar said this is a temporary appointment and that the search for a permanent commissioner is underway. A successor must be nominated by President Trump and confirmed by the Senate.Dr. Gottlieb said he supported the appointment.He also said some members of the F.D.A. were already acquainted with their new boss, who had joined them on the basketball court for weekly games.The F.D.A. regulates more than 20 percent of the goods in the United States economy, from cosmetics to contact lenses, artificial hips and prescription drugs.Dr. Gottlieb’s boldest action has been his crackdown on youth vaping, for which he blamed the e-cigarette industry. Dr. Sharpless has already signaled support for the move.In a statement issued on Tuesday, Dr. Sharpless said, “It will be an honor to advance the F.D.A.’s critical public health mission.”But it is unclear whether an acting commissioner would be able to press ahead on the more contentious fronts related to tobacco: the F.D.A.’s long-term proposals to reduce the level of nicotine in traditional cigarettes; tightening regulations on all e-cigarettes and other smoking alternatives; and pursuing a ban on menthol cigarettes. Many of the tougher restrictions face considerable opposition from Congress and the tobacco industry.Ellen Sigal, founder of Friends of Cancer Research, praised the appointment.“We have no doubt that Dr. Sharpless will continue to navigate and direct the F.D.A. in a manner that best benefits patients,” she said in an email.In a November 2018 post on the cancer center website, Dr. Sharpless said that funding for the institute had grown, but that the number of excellent ideas for important research had grown even faster.“In many ways, we are still just scratching the surface of our knowledge of cancer, how it begins, how tumors interact with the immune system and other elements of their microenvironment, how to overcome treatment resistance, and a host of other critical questions,” he wrote.Katie Thomas contributed reporting.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byPersonal HealthWith colorectal cancer being found in an increasing number of younger adults, the pressure is on to screen millions more.By Jane E. BrodyAlthough I usually refrain from writing columns linked to national health observances, I believe that Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, in March, is too important to ignore. There are simply too many people who are still getting and dying from this preventable disease because they failed to get screened for it, including people without excuses like ignorance, lack of health insurance or poor access to medical services.And as Joy Ginsburg’s experience shows, even some doctors may need to be pushed into encouraging their patients to be tested. Ms. Ginsburg of Leawood, Kan., where she is executive director of an organization that raises private funds for public education, was 48 when her primary care doctor suggested that she have a baseline colonoscopy.But the gastroenterologist she consulted was reluctant to perform one. “He made fun of me,” she said. “I was not yet 50 and had no symptoms, risk factors or family history of colon cancer.”Still, Ms. Ginsburg was aware that last year the American Cancer Society had lowered the recommended age to start screening from 50 to 45, so she insisted. And it was lucky that she did. A very large precancerous polyp, the size of a golf ball, was found that required surgical removal along with 40 percent of her colon.“If I had waited until 50 to get screened, I would have had a very different story to tell,” she said. “Now I’m screaming from the rooftops for everyone to get screened. Having a colonoscopy is a lot easier than getting cancer.”Five years ago this month, the American Cancer Society and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention established the National Colorectal Cancer Roundtable with a goal to get 80 percent of all Americans ages 50 to 75 screened for cancers of the colon and rectum by any medically accepted method by 2018. At the time, only about 65 percent of those in the designated age group were up-to-date with an approved test.Now, with colorectal cancer being found in an increasing number of younger adults, the pressure is on to screen millions more adults in every community of the United States. The current goal is to test at least 80 percent of residents ages 45 to 75 in each community using an approved method. More than 1,800 community organizations have already lined up to help make this happen.“We’re not insisting that everyone get a colonoscopy, even though it’s the gold standard for detecting and preventing colon cancer,” said Dr. Richard C. Wender, chief cancer control officer at the cancer society. “A lot of people don’t want it, some can’t afford it, and sometimes it’s not available.”But finances are not the only stumbling block, Dr. Wender said. “Seventy-five percent of the people who hadn’t been screened when the campaign started five years ago had health insurance, many of them through their employers.”Other issues include a failure of people “to get started with screening when they reach the appropriate age,” the doctor said. “In 2016, only about 49 percent of adults aged 50 to 54 had been screened.” Another obstacle is that all too often, people go to the doctor only when they’re sick. They’re not focused on preventive care, Dr. Wender said, and neither are many of their doctors.How the American medical system is organized is yet another obstacle. The typical visit to independent primary care doctors is spent on diagnosis and treatment with little time left for prevention. By contrast, in the Kaiser Permanente system, which has a strong financial incentive to keep its members healthy, 80 percent of members throughout the system — and 90 percent of members on Medicare — have undergone screening for colorectal cancer.Colorectal cancer is the second most common cause of cancer deaths in this country, with more than 51,000 people expected to die of the disease this year. Although the overall death rate has been dropping for several decades, thanks largely to increased detection and removal of precancerous polyps, deaths among people younger than 55 have increased by 1 percent a year since 2007. This means it’s all the more important to encourage screening among middle-aged adults.These are the tests currently available:Colonoscopy. Although this test is the most costly and involved, it is the best not only because it can find an existing cancer, but because it also detects polyps that may become cancer and can be removed during the screening test. It uses a scope and requires a thorough pretest cleansing of the bowel, a step most people find rather unpleasant. But for people without risk factors or a personal or family history of polyps or colorectal cancer, it is usually done only once every 10 years.FIT. This immunological test, done yearly on a stool sample, checks for blood in the stool, a possible sign of cancer. It usually fails to pick up polyps and thus would not prevent cancer, but it is more effective than the old fecal occult blood test.FIT-fecal DNA. This test, sold as Cologuard and usually done every three years, combines FIT with markers for abnormal DNA in the stool, making it better able to detect a cancer and advanced precancerous polyps. It misses about half of precancerous polyps.Virtual colonoscopy. This is an imaging study done every five years via a CT scan that, like an ordinary colonoscopy, requires a thorough bowel cleansing. It visualizes the entire colon, but if anything abnormal is detected, a second prep is needed to permit a regular colonoscopy.Septin 9 assay. This is a serum test done via a blood sample that, although more convenient and less “yucky” than stool tests, is only half as effective as the FIT test in detecting cancer and not at all effective in picking up precancerous lesions.As important as getting screened for colorectal cancer is the need to avoid risk factors for the disease that individuals can control. These include being overweight or physically inactive, smoking, consuming alcohol immoderately, and eating lots of red meat and processed meat.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinAlex Trebek, the longtime host of the classic trivia television show “Jeopardy!”, announced in a video on Wednesday that he has Stage IV pancreatic cancer.“Normally the prognosis for this is not very encouraging,” Mr. Trebek said. “But I’m going to fight this, and I’m going to keep working.”Mr. Trebek, 78, has become a household name during his tenure at “Jeopardy!”, in which three knowledgeable contestants compete to see who can come up with the right answers — or rather, the right questions — the fastest.Mr. Trebek said that he learned about the diagnosis this week.The average lifetime risk for pancreatic cancer is about one in 63 for men, and one in 65 for women, according to the American Cancer Society. The disease is known for its low survival rates. It has been estimated that only about 9 percent of patients who are found to have the disease survive the next five years.Mr. Trebek, a native of Ontario with a philosophy degree, worked for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation before he made his American television debut as a game show host in 1973. He became host of “Jeopardy!” in 1984, according the show’s website, and has hosted more than 7,000 episodes.He suffered two minor heart attacks, in 2007 and 2012.In his video announcement, Mr. Trebek used the same calm cadence he typically employs to host the nightly quiz show, and he added a joke to soften the blow.“I plan to beat the low survival rate statistics for this disease,” he said. “Truth told, I have to. Because under the terms of my contract, I have to host Jeopardy for three more years.”Mr. Trebek hinted last year that he was considering leaving the show in 2020, but in October he renewed his contract and is scheduled to host the quiz show through 2022.Julia Jacobs contributed reporting.OpinionKen JenningsAdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuA New Jersey jury ruled unanimously for Johnson & Johnson on Wednesday in the latest lawsuit to reach a verdict over accusations that the company’s talc-based powder products contained asbestos and caused a consumer’s cancer.The jury, in Middlesex County Superior Court, not far from Johnson & Johnson’s New Brunswick headquarters, found that Ricardo Rimondi hadn’t proved that he was exposed to asbestos, a carcinogen, via the company’s baby powder.Mr. Rimondi’s lawyers argued during the monthlong trial that years of exposure to products like baby powder had caused his mesothelioma, a cancer of the lining of the internal organs that is associated with asbestos.Monica Cooper of the Lanier Law Firm, which represented Mr. Rimondi, said in a statement that her team was “obviously disappointed by the outcome, particularly in light of the overwhelming scientific and documentary evidence supporting the claims of the Rimondi family that J & J’s talcum-based baby powder is laced with asbestos.”Mr. Rimondi was one of about 13,000 plaintiffs who have sued Johnson & Johnson, alleging that its products caused their cancer. The company has consistently denied that its powders were ever contaminated with asbestos.Ms. Cooper’s firm helped a group of 22 women with ovarian cancer successfully sue Johnson & Johnson in St. Louis. A jury there awarded the women $4.69 billion last year after they argued that the company had known for decades about the risk of asbestos in talc. The company is appealing the decision.In California this month, a jury ordered Johnson & Johnson to pay more than $29 million to a woman who claimed that asbestos in the company’s talc products had caused her mesothelioma.The New York Times reported last year that Johnson & Johnson had spent years trying to obscure negative information linking asbestos to its products.The verdict on Wednesday underscored “the decades of clinical evidence and scientific studies by medical experts around the world that support the safety of Johnson’s Baby Powder,” Ernie W. Knewitz, a Johnson & Johnson spokesman, said in an email.Mr. Knewitz said that three of the past nine cases involving mesothelioma had been decided in Johnson & Johnson’s favor, and that five others had ended in mistrials.AdvertisementSupported byBy Julia JacobsA federal jury on Wednesday ordered Monsanto to pay more than $80 million in damages to a California man whose cancer it determined was partly caused by his use of the popular weedkiller Roundup.The six-member jury found that Monsanto should be held liable for the man’s illness because it failed to include a label on its product warning of the weedkiller’s risk of causing cancer.The verdict, delivered in United States District Court in San Francisco, is a milestone in the continuing public debate over the health effects of Roundup and its active ingredient, glyphosate, the world’s most widely used weedkiller. Monsanto is currently defending itself against thousands of similar claims.The plaintiff, Edwin Hardeman, 70, used Roundup to control weeds and poison oak on his property for 26 years. In 2015, he learned that he had non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. The next year, after the World Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on Cancer declared glyphosate a probable carcinogen, Mr. Hardeman sued Monsanto.Wednesday’s verdict ended the second of two phases in the trial. Last week, the jury issued an initial verdict saying that the weedkiller was a “substantial factor” in causing Mr. Hardeman’s cancer. The jury then started deliberating on Tuesday afternoon about whether Monsanto demonstrated negligence and should be held liable.In determining that Monsanto was responsible, the jury awarded Mr. Hardeman $75 million in punitive damages, Jennifer Moore, one of his lawyers, said in a phone interview. About $5 million was also awarded for Mr. Hardeman’s past and future suffering, as well as more than $200,000 for medical bills, Ms. Moore said.Ms. Moore said that Monsanto had continually ignored scientific studies showing the harmful health effects of Roundup.“The evidence is overwhelming that Roundup can cause non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,” she said. “And despite that, Monsanto continues to deny that.” She said that Mr. Hardeman’s cancer was in remission.A statement from Bayer, which acquired Monsanto last year, said that the company would appeal the jury’s verdict.“We are disappointed with the jury’s decision, but this verdict does not change the weight of over four decades of extensive science and the conclusions of regulators worldwide that support the safety of our glyphosate-based herbicides and that they are not carcinogenic,” the statement said.In December 2017, the Environmental Protection Agency issued a draft human health risk assessment that said glyphosate was most likely not carcinogenic to humans.During the court proceedings, Mr. Hardeman’s legal team presented expert testimony and research that Roundup causes mutations in human cells and that human populations that are exposed to Roundup are more likely to develop non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.Bayer’s statement said that it believed the jury was most likely divided over the scientific evidence presented in the case, which it said was indicated by the fact that the jurors took more than four days to decide last week’s verdict.In a similar case decided last year, a California jury found that Monsanto had failed to warn a school groundskeeper of the cancer risks posed by Roundup. The jury ordered Monsanto to pay $289 million in damages, but a judge later reduced that payment to about $80 million. Monsanto is also appealing that verdict.“Now two different juries have held that Roundup causes an individual’s non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma,” Ms. Moore said, “and that Monsanto should be punished for its conduct.”Mihir Zaveri contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byBy Constant MeheutPARIS — France has banned several types of textured breast implants that have been linked to a rare form of cancer.The ban, which covers macro-textured and polyurethane implants, took effect on Friday. It was announced this week by France’s National Agency for Safety of Medicines and Health Products, or ANSM, in a letter to manufacturers.The implants, characterized by a textured, Velcro-like surface that adheres to the breast tissue, are suspected of being linked to anaplastic large-cell lymphoma, a rare form of cancer. Since 2011, 59 cases have been recorded in France, according to the ANSM, and most women affected by the disease had textured breast implants.Although the safety agency did not find a causal link between the cancer and the implants, it said it was imposing the ban as a “precautionary measure.”In December, Allergan, one of the makers of textured implants, halted European sales after its certification expired. The French safety agency had asked for additional data on the implants, but the company said it could not provide it before the expiration date.At the time, the ANSM said it had not “identified any immediate risk for the health of women carrying the implants concerned,” and it did not mention the unusual cancer.France’s decision this week has set off a chain reaction in regulators across continents, with Canada and the Netherlands announcing similar plans to suspend the sale of textured breast implants.In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration held public hearings on the subject on March 25 and 26. It said it would announce a decision “in the coming weeks.”The prohibition followed a series of media investigations last year, coordinated by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, that found poorly designed breast implants had led to health issues for patients globally.In the ANSM letter this week, which the French newspaper Le Monde published on its website, Dr. Christelle Ratignier-Carbonneil, deputy director-general of the agency, asked manufacturers to remove their implants from the market, “in view of the rare but serious danger that their implantation is likely to constitute.”Nearly 500,000 women have breast implants in France. In 2018, macro-textured and polyurethane implants represented 27 percent of sales, according to the ANSM. Over the past five years, some 70,000 women are thought to have received the implants, which do not slip out of place or rotate, unlike smooth ones. They are also less likely than smooth ones to cause thick scarring around the implant, which is common and requires more surgery.Joëlle Manighetti, a French activist who started a blog on breast implants after suffering from faulty ones, praised the decision as going “beyond our recommendations.”“I now hope that there will be a serious follow-up of the other breast implants still on the market,” she said.Breast implants came under scrutiny in France in the last decade, in a landmark case involving the company Poly Implant Prothèse, which was accused of selling hundreds of thousands of defective implants in 65 countries.After a trial that involved more than 7,000 defendants, the company’s founder, Jean-Claude Mas, and four former employees were found guilty of aggravated fraud in 2012. Mr. Mas, who died Thursday at age 79, was later sentenced to four years in prison.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressOCEANSIDE, Calif. — Bill Isles, an original member of the chart-topping R&B group The O'Jays, has died at his Southern California Home. He was 78.Isles' son, Duane Isles, tells The San Diego Union-Tribune that his father died of cancer in Oceanside last month. The funeral was Saturday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - United States Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, previously mentioned as a possible contender for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020, said on Wednesday that he will undergo surgery for prostate cancer during the upcoming legislative break."Late last month, I was diagnosed with prostate cancer. While hearing news like this is never easy, I am fortunate it was detected early, and as a result, my prognosis is good," Bennet, a Democrat, said in a brief statement released by his office."During the upcoming Senate recess, I will have surgery in Colorado and return to work following a brief recovery," Bennet said in the statement.An adviser to Bennet told the Denver Post newspaper last month that the 54-year-old former Clinton Administration official had not made a final decision about whether to join the already crowded field seeking his party's presidential nomination.Already more than a dozen candidates have jumped into the race, including Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper. Several others, including former vice president Joe Biden, are said to be making preparations for a run. Bennet was appointed to the Senate in 2009 after his predecessor, Ken Salazar, was named secretary of the interior by President Barack Obama.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - United States Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, previously mentioned as a possible contender for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020, said on Wednesday that he will undergo surgery for prostate cancer during the upcoming legislative break."Late last month, I was diagnosed with prostate cancer. While hearing news like this is never easy, I am fortunate it was detected early, and as a result, my prognosis is good," Bennet, a Democrat, said in a brief statement released by his office."During the upcoming Senate recess, I will have surgery in Colorado and return to work following a brief recovery," Bennet said in the statement.An adviser to Bennet told the Denver Post newspaper last month that the 54-year-old former Clinton Administration official had not made a final decision about whether to join the already crowded field seeking his party's presidential nomination.Already more than a dozen candidates have jumped into the race, including Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper. Several others, including former vice president Joe Biden, are said to be making preparations for a run. Bennet was appointed to the Senate in 2009 after his predecessor, Ken Salazar, was named secretary of the interior by President Barack Obama.AdvertisementSupported byBy Heather MurphyIn 2010, Dr. Pamela Munster mailed her saliva to 23andMe, a relatively new DNA testing company, and later opted in for a BRCA test. As an oncologist, she knew a mutation of this gene would put her at high risk for breast and ovarian cancer. She was relieved by the negative result.Two years later, after she learned she had breast cancer, she took a more complete genetic test from a different lab. This time it was positive.A study of 100,000 people released earlier this month suggested that this experience could be widespread. Nearly 90 percent of participants who carried a BRCA mutation would have been missed by 23andMe’s test, geneticists found.23andMe’s testing formula for this risk is built around just three genetic variants, most prevalent among Ashkenazi Jews. The new study demonstrated that most people carry other mutations of the gene, something many doctors have long suspected.“It’s as if you offered a pregnancy test, but only the Jewish women would turn positive,” said Dr. Munster, who is the co-leader of the Center for BRCA Research at the University of California, San Francisco. She was not involved in the new study, which was conducted by Invitae, a diagnostic company.23andMe said response to the study by its potential competitor had been overblown because the site makes it clear that it is testing only for three of the mutations.Dr. Munster said that 23andMe was “not doing anything actively deceptive.” But she is still concerned that many customers do not grasp the limits of mail-in genetic testing.23andMe now has more than 10 million customers. Even if only a small percentage take the test, that’s thousands who could be misled.Mary-Claire King, a professor at the University of Washington who discovered the region on the genome that became known as BRCA1, had a more blunt assessment of the Food and Drug Administration’s decision to allow the test.“The F.D.A. should not have permitted this out-of-date approach to be used for medical purposes,” Dr. King said. “Misleading, falsely reassuring results from their incomplete testing can cost women’s lives.”The study, which was presented at the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics annual meeting and has not been peer reviewed, was built around more than 100,000 patients who underwent breast cancer risk testing with Invitae, a diagnostic company.Despite the lack of peer review and Invitae’s potential role as a business competitor, genetic medicine experts not affiliated with Invitae said in interviews that they found the work to be credible, particularly as the company’s findings echo other, smaller studies.23andMe’s test focuses on BRCA1 and BRCA2, genes involved in suppressing growth of abnormal cells. Specifically, it looks for three notorious genetic variants, known as founder mutations. Invitae’s analysts expanded their search to include thousands of other variants.Dr. Susan Klugman, vice president for clinical genetics at the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics, likened it to a broader spell-check. Whereas 23andMe looks for errors in a few paragraphs, the Invitae analysts used more advanced genetic technology to search through 25 chapters. (Dr. Klugman was not involved in the Invitae study.)In about 5,000 subjects, analysts identified at least one variant known to significantly increase an individual’s risk of breast and ovarian cancer. Among the Ashkenazi Jews in the positive group, 81 percent had one of the three founder mutations, suggesting that 23andMe’s test could be helpful for them. Among the rest, 94 percent carried variants that would have failed to be detected by 23andMe.One reason is purely technical: To return to the literary metaphor, 23andMe isn’t set up to scan entire genetic books the way some labs are. So even if the company wanted to look for other variants, that would not be possible without changing its approach, said Dr. Robert C. Green, a professor at Harvard Medical School.Dr. Green said that limitation is not necessarily a problem.“I think people have the right to their own genetic information, but with that right comes a responsibility,” he said. “If you are going to go around the medical mainstream, read the caveats.”Dr. Jeffrey Pollard, 23andMe’s director of medical affairs, said that the company’s focus was far from arbitrary.“We test for these three variants since they are three of the most well-studied and carry clear, documented risk for breast and ovarian cancer,” he said. “About one in 40 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish descent has one of these three variants. Women with one of these variants have a 45 to 85 percent chance of developing breast cancer by age 70.”The company warns customers that it is not testing for all variants, and its approach has been approved by the F.D.A., he said. (The company said that data on how many people have taken its test was not available.)Yes. Alongside the primary study, Invitae analysts also presented a smaller study investigating this question, built around 102 patients. All participants had been told that they had a mutation of the gene from a mail-in test or other online analysis service. (Whether they used 23andMe or another service was not documented. Based on their reading of the data, 23andMe analysts insisted their company’s results were not a part of the study.)In nearly half of the patients, Invitae could not confirm the presence of a mutation. That means that had these patients not taken a second test, they would have gone on thinking that they were at greater risk for inherited cancer than they really were.A positive result can be a major life event: Some people may opt to get a preventive mastectomy or hysterectomy. Others may increase the frequency of their doctors’ visits or alter other habits.Another small study published last year produced similar results for other inherited illnesses. Forty percent of individuals who tested positive for genetic variants associated with Parkinson’s disease, late-onset Alzheimer’s disease and a number of other diseases using mail-in genetic tests were negative in a confirmation test.One of the primary arguments for genetic testing that does not involve a physician is that it reaches people who would not do it otherwise. Around one in 25 American adults has now taken an at-home ancestry test.Regardless of who does the test, talking to a genetic counselor is advisable, Dr. Klugman said. Genetic counselors can help patients make sense of their results, and sometimes they sniff out incorrect findings.AdvertisementSupported byDoctorsI am a firm believer in the ability of music to help people express their emotions, hopes and fears, making their medical conditions more tolerable.By Mikkael A. Sekeres, M.D.I first met my patient, a man in his late 80s, in 2012, when he had been living with myelodysplastic syndromes, a form of bone marrow cancer, for five years — longer than the average survival for those diagnosed with the condition. He was a former high school math teacher who was unerringly precise about his laboratory values. He also had a spark to him that no cancer could extinguish.Over the years, we had tried a variety of therapies to treat him, some of which worked for a while, some not at all. After our most recent failed attempt to solve the complicated equation of his disease, he had said enough was enough, and asked to be placed on hospice at the nursing facility where he now resided. Fortunately for him, it was one of the few hospice programs that allowed him to continue seeing me to receive the regular blood transfusions that corrected the anemia brought on by his cancer, which eased his fatigue and made him feel more like himself.When I entered the examination room, he was wearing an outfit typical of what he sported to many of our visits: a red and yellow tattersall shirt; chinos with a broken button, held closed with a black belt; red Ohio State socks; and tan moccasins. His face was framed by square, dark brown glasses that gave him an air of being more serious than he frequently was. His son sat by his side.“I’m honored to be in the presence of such musical greatness!” I joked with my patient. “I should have brought a Sharpie marker with me to get your autograph.”He smiled and his son started to chuckle. My patient had just sung in a concert at the hospital near his nursing facility, showcasing performances by him and six other patients. He had been participating in a music therapy program for over a year.I am a firm believer in the ability of music to help people express their emotions, hopes and fears, making their medical conditions more tolerable. In one study, patients undergoing a bone-marrow transplant were randomized to participate in a music therapy program or receive standard medical care. Those who received music therapy needed fewer narcotic pain medications than those receiving the usual care.“Were you able to see a video of the show?” his son asked as he brought out his phone. I shook my head, and he scrolled through his files until he found the one he was looking for and pressed play.On the screen, my patient sat tall in a black wheelchair with a high back, wearing a blue dress shirt and bow tie. A microphone hovered in front of him, and a music therapist strummed a guitar softly by his side.He started in on “Sentimental Journey,” the song originally sung by Doris Day with Les Brown and His Band of Renown in the mid-1940s, when my patient was entering his teenage years.Gonna take a sentimental journeyGonna set my heart at ease Gonna make a sentimental journey To renew old memories …His voice started out a bit tremulous and unsure, but gathered strength as the song progressed, with some vibrato and huskiness adding depth to the words, as if he were living them in real time.“You sound incredible,” I told him. His eyes danced with delight. “You must have done this before.”“Only in a church choir,” he said. “And in a men’s quartet for a bit when I was younger. But never on my own for an audience.”“Did your family attend the show?”“Oh, they all came. My wife, children and my granddaughter. One son drove all the way from Illinois, he couldn’t believe his dad was actually going to do this.”“How long did it take you to practice?” I asked.“About two months,” his son answered.“The music therapist joined me while I was getting transfusions,” my patient added. I considered the many hours he spent regularly in an infusion chair as the blood slowly dripped in, time now well spent.Never thought my heart could be so yearny Why did I decide to roam? Gotta take that sentimental journey Sentimental journey home.The three of us sat in silence when the song ended, thinking about the end of his journey, his journey home.“All of the care you’ve given me came out in that solo,” he said, his eyes now glistening.AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriA federal jury found Tuesday that Monsanto’s popular weedkiller Roundup was a “substantial factor” in causing a California man’s cancer, dealing a significant blow to the company as it aggressively defends its products against thousands of similar claims.The six-member jury delivered the unanimous verdict in the United States District Court in San Francisco, months after a groundskeeper who said Roundup caused his cancer was awarded about $80 million in a separate case in California.Tuesday’s verdict concluded the first of two phases in the federal case about the possible health risks of Roundup and whether Monsanto misled the man, Edwin Hardeman, about those risks.Mr. Hardeman used Roundup to control weeds and poison oak on his property for 26 years. He learned he had non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma in 2015.The second phase of the case, which begins Wednesday, will focus on whether Monsanto, which was acquired by Bayer AG last year, should be held liable for partly causing Mr. Hardeman’s cancer, said his lawyer, Jennifer Moore. Ms. Moore said lawyers would seek to prove that Monsanto manipulated public opinion and science to play down Roundup’s health risks.Lawyers will argue that Monsanto knew or should have known that Roundup causes cancer, Ms. Moore said in an interview Tuesday. Mr. Hardeman’s team will ask that the jury have the company pay his medical bills and an undetermined amount of damages, she added.“We feel confident based on the evidence that a jury, when presented with all of the evidence, will see that Monsanto has committed 40 years of corporate malfeasance,” Ms. Moore said.Bayer said in a statement Tuesday that it was disappointed in the jury’s verdict and that “the evidence in phase two will show that Monsanto’s conduct has been appropriate and the company should not be liable for Mr. Hardeman’s cancer.”“We have great sympathy for Mr. Hardeman and his family, but an extensive body of science supports the conclusion that Roundup was not the cause of his cancer,” Bayer said in the statement. “Bayer stands behind these products and will vigorously defend them.”The verdict in the closely watched case is a milestone in the contentious public debate over Roundup, which was Monsanto’s flagship product. Its active ingredient, glyphosate, is the world’s most widely used weedkiller.Ms. Moore said the verdict would most likely influence the thousands of other similar cases — about 11,200 people had sued Monsanto over Roundup as of February, according to Bayer.Bayer, on the other hand, said the jury’s decision Tuesday “has no impact on future cases and trials because each one has its own factual and legal circumstances.”Edward K. Cheng, a Vanderbilt University law professor, said that legally, Tuesday’s finding cannot be used as precedent in other Roundup cases. But practically, he said, Tuesday’s verdict and the verdict from last year, in which juries have found a link between Roundup and cancer, “have some import.”“What ends up happening is these start to be markers,” he said. “I would expect that Monsanto is going to start thinking about ‘How much risk do we face here?’ if one jury after another is going to say ‘Yes.’”Bayer has consistently defended the safety of Roundup and glyphosate, and industry-funded research has long found the herbicide to be relatively safe. Regulators have mostly agreed.In December 2017, the Environmental Protection Agency issued a draft human health risk assessment that said glyphosate was most likely not carcinogenic to humans.Central to the criticism of Roundup, however, is a decision by the World Health Organization’s International Agency for Research on Cancer in 2015 to declare glyphosate a probable carcinogen.That spurred Mr. Hardeman to file a lawsuit in February 2016, and prompted California to declare glyphosate a chemical that is known to cause cancer.In August, a California jury found that Monsanto had failed to warn a school groundskeeper of the cancer risks posed by Roundup, which he used as part of his job as a pest control manager. Monsanto was ordered to pay $289 million in damages.In October, a judge reduced that total to about $80 million, saying the jury’s award was too high. Monsanto is appealing that verdict, a spokesman said.Mr. Hardeman’s case was the first federal case to go to trial, Ms. Moore said. She said the legal team presented expert testimony and research that Roundup causes mutations in human cells and that human populations that are exposed to Roundup are more likely to develop non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.Documents unsealed in 2017 in Mr. Hardeman’s case suggested that Monsanto had ghostwritten research that was later attributed to academics. The documents indicated that a senior official at the E.P.A. had worked to quash a federal review of glyphosate.The documents also revealed that there was some disagreement within the E.P.A. over its own risk assessment.Concepción de León contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byThe iconic game show host has been handed a frightening diagnosis. Here’s what it means. By Gina KolataThe cancer that has struck Alex Trebek, the 78-year-old host of the television quiz show “Jeopardy!,” is uncommon and devastating: a Stage 4 malignancy of the pancreas, the insulin-producing organ that lies behind the stomach. Pancreatic cancer strikes about 55,000 people each year in the United States, accounting for 3 percent of all cancers but 7 percent of all cancer deaths. That’s because it can be so difficult to detect and treat. Stage 4, unfortunately, is the most advanced level.The main risk factor is aging, and Mr. Trebek is “in the right age range,” said Dr. Ursina Teitelbaum, clinical director of the Pancreatic Cancer Research Center at the University of Pennsylvania. There are several types, but the most common by far is adenocarcinoma: Tumors arise in pancreatic glands that make enzymes to help digest foods. Nearly all pancreatic tumors are of this type, said Dr. William Jarnagin, a pancreatic surgeon at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York. It’s “the kind of cancer most people think of when they say pancreatic cancer.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]There is no screening test that can find it early, Dr. Teitelbaum said. The pancreas is deep in the body and hard even to biopsy. “It is a fluffy organ nestled in a rich bed of blood vessels,” Dr. Teitelbaum said. Those vessels serve as highways transporting the cancer cells to other organs.And it is a very aggressive cancer, a highly lethal disease with few good treatment options. Even in a patient who is fortunate — who is among the 10 percent to 15 percent whose cancer is found when it still can be surgically removed — the risk of recurrence is great. Up to 85 percent of patients who have surgery followed by chemotherapy have a recurrence at some point, usually within two years. Even those who survive five or more years are still at risk of another episode.“We’ve seen that happen,” Dr. Jarnagin said. “It seems quite unfair.”The problem is that pancreatic cancer usually has no symptoms until it is far advanced. By the time patients complain of pain, unintended weight loss or jaundice — typical symptoms — the tumor tends to be well established. By the time the cancer can easily be seen in M.R.I. or CT scans, it almost always has spread beyond the pancreas, even if there are no obvious signs in other organs.If the tumor can be removed, doctors operate. Surgery is followed by chemotherapy to attack microscopic cancer cells that are left behind in the pancreas or are hiding in other organs. For patients whose cancers can be treated with surgery and chemotherapy, the median survival time is 54 months, although on rare occasions patients are cured. The rising survival rate is a huge advance, compared to what patients faced ten years ago.“There was such nihilism,” Dr. Teitelbaum said of the diagnosis then. Now new chemotherapy regimens have more than doubled survival times. “It is really good news,” she said. “Patients are living longer and better.”In some men with localized pancreatic tumors, the malignancy has grown too large for surgery to be useful — but it has not spread. These patients are treated with chemotherapy and sometimes radiation therapy. They have a median survival rate of 10 to 12 months.Patients with Stage 4 cancer, like Mr. Trebek, are not candidates for surgery, because the cancer has already spread throughout the body. Chemotherapy is the only option.Not yet. “Inroads have been slow in coming,” Dr. Jarnagin said. AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie Thomas and Charles OrnsteinThis article was reported and written in collaboration with ProPublica, the nonprofit journalism organization.Dr. José Baselga, who resigned his position as the top doctor at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center after failing to disclose millions of dollars in payments from drug companies, is now going to work for one of them.AstraZeneca, the British-Swedish drug maker, announced on Monday that it had hired Dr. Baselga as its head of research and development in oncology, a newly created unit that reflects the company’s shift toward cancer treatments, one of the hottest areas in the drug industry.In a statement, AstraZeneca’s chief executive, Pascal Soriot, described Dr. Baselga as “an outstanding scientific leader.” “José’s research and clinical achievements have led to the development of several innovative medicines, and he is an international thought leader in cancer care and clinical research,” he said.Dr. Baselga stepped down in September from his role as chief medical officer at the cancer center after The New York Times and ProPublica reported that he had failed to accurately disclose his conflicts of interest in dozens of articles in medical journals. He later resigned from the boards of the drug maker Bristol-Myers Squibb and the radiation equipment manufacturer Varian Medical Systems.Although Memorial Sloan Kettering has said that Dr. Baselga was not fired, hospital leaders have indicated that he was forced out. In October, Douglas A. Warner III, then the chairman of the cancer center’s board, told the staff that Dr. Baselga’s actions “left us no choice.”In December, the American Association for Cancer Research said that Dr. Baselga, at its request, had resigned his post as one of two editors in chief of its medical journal Cancer Discovery because he did “not adhere to the high standards” of conflict-of-interest disclosures that the group expects of its leaders. Some of his omissions involved articles that were published in Cancer Discovery while he was an editor in chief.A spokesman for AstraZeneca said Dr. Baselga was not available for comment, but the doctor told Reuters on Monday that he took responsibility for his disclosure lapses. He also said the cancer association had concluded his failures were “inadvertent,” and said many of his company relationships were publicly available on a federal database of physician payments by drug and device manufacturers. However, some of the relationships that Dr. Baselga failed to disclose were with small biotech start-ups that are not required to report to the federal government.“Dr. Baselga is one of the best scientists in the field of oncology,” said the spokesman, Gonzalo Viña. “We evaluated the series of inadvertent omissions, which have since been addressed and it is not for us to comment about the previous roles he held.”AstraZeneca paid Dr. Baselga $28,750 for consulting work in 2013 and 2014 related to unspecified drugs, according to the federal database. He failed to disclose any relationships with companies, including AstraZeneca, in dozens of articles in recent years.Dr. Baselga, 59, is an expert in breast cancer research and played a key role in the development of Herceptin by Genentech, a subsidiary of Roche. He came to Memorial Sloan Kettering in 2013 after serving as chief of hematology and oncology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. Before that, he was a leader at the Vall d’Hebron Institute of Oncology in Barcelona, Spain.Since September, Dr. Baselga has corrected his conflict-of-interest disclosures in several journals, including in The New England Journal of Medicine and in Cancer Discovery. In a note that accompanied Dr. Baselga’s correction in The New England Journal of Medicine, editors described his failure as a “breach of trust.”AstraZeneca’s decision to hire Dr. Baselga is part of an effort by the drug maker to focus more directly on cancer research, which has generated extensive interest from investors and companies in recent years amid a series of breakthroughs. The company sells several cancer drugs, including the lung cancer drug Tagrisso and Lynparza, which treats a number of cancers. It has suffered some recent setbacks, such as a failed trial of its lung cancer drug Imfinzi.Under the company’s new structure, Dr. Baselga will oversee the development of cancer drugs from early research to late-stage clinical trials, and a separate research unit will focus on other disease areas. Each unit will have its own commercial team to promote the products.“This new structure will support growth and sharpen the focus on our main therapy areas, speeding up decisions and making us more productive in our mission to bring innovative medicines to patients,” Mr. Soriot said in the statement.In the same statement, Dr. Baselga described his new role as a “dream job” and said the reorganization will “accelerate our work to bring transformative medicines to patients.”Charles Ornstein is a senior editor at ProPublica.AdvertisementSupported byHigh-tech surgical robots aren’t an improvement over traditional operations, the F.D.A. warns. For some patients, the robots may be worse.By Roni Caryn RabinRobotic surgery was never approved for mastectomy or any other cancer-related treatment, but that has hardly deterred doctors in the operating suite. The equipment is widely used to operate on patients with various malignancies, from breast cancer to prostate cancer.Yet there have long been questions about how well doctors are trained on the machines, and whether the devices are better for patients than traditional methods. Now the Food and Drug Administration has warned that there is no evidence cancer patients receiving robotic procedures live longer than those who have traditional procedures. And some research shows that patients with cervical cancer fare worse.“We want doctors and patients to be aware of the lack of evidence of safety and effectiveness for these uses so they can make better informed decisions about their cancer treatment and care,” said Dr. Terri Cornelison, assistant director for the health of women at the F.D.A.’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Robotic systems have been on the market for more than 15 years, and have been used for cancer surgery for much of that time. The machine’s tower, which is positioned over the patient, looks a bit like a multi-armed Star Wars droid. Three of its arms hold surgical devices, while a fourth holds a camera.The robot’s arms are controlled by a computer that replicates the movements of the operating surgeon, who manipulates the robot’s controls while looking at a monitor that provides a magnified, high-definition image of the operating site.The F.D.A. noted the findings of two studies published last year in the New England Journal of Medicine. One of them was a clinical trial that was stopped early after investigators found that women with cervical cancer who had so-called minimally invasive hysterectomies, including robotically assisted procedures, experienced four times as many cancer recurrences and six times as many deaths, compared with patients who had the more traditional procedure. The trial’s findings were especially striking because the surgery, a radical hysterectomy, usually cures patients with cervical cancer, said Dr. Pedro T. Ramirez, lead author of the paper and director of minimally invasive surgical research at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.A second study funded by the National Institutes of Health used a database to compare the outcomes of 2,461 women with cervical cancer who had different types of surgery. Four years after the operation, 9.1 percent of those who had minimally invasive surgery had died, compared with 5.3 percent of those who had open surgery.Yet many physicians continue to recommend robotic surgery to patients, despite the evidence of harm. “Several surgeons have said to me, ‘I can’t find a flaw in your study, but I just can’t stop doing it,’” Dr. Ramirez said.Dr. Ramirez’s own department stopped doing minimally invasive radical hysterectomies in October 2017, when the first study’s results were confirmed.“My feeling is, this is about patient care,” he said. “It’s not about how much time you devoted to your training or your ego. It’s an issue of cancer, and having a high likelihood of cancer coming back if you have surgery through this approach.”It is not clear why cervical cancer outcomes were worse following minimally invasive surgeries. Dr. Ramirez suggested that the instruments used to manipulate the cervix and uterus may cause cancer cells to spread. Another possibility is that the carbon dioxide pumped into the abdomen during robotic and other minimally invasive procedures — it provides working and viewing space for the surgeon — may increase the likelihood of cancer cells implanting, Dr. Ramirez said.The F.D.A.’s warning was not limited to cervical cancer: Robotic surgical devices are not authorized for prevention or treatment of any cancer, nor are they approved for mastectomy (removal of the breast), the agency said. The agency also urged health care providers “to complete the appropriate training” needed for performing robotic surgery, and urged patients to ask doctors about their training and experience, as well as about their patients’ outcomes.In 2000, the F.D.A. allowed the sale of one of the first robotic surgery systems, the da Vinci Surgical System, under a process called “premarket notification,” which is often used to bring medical devices on to the market without the rigorous safety and efficacy trials required for new drugs.Under premarket notification, devices are “cleared” for use on the grounds that they are similar to devices already available. The da Vinci system is cleared for some urological and gynecological procedures, among others. A similar robotic device, the Senhance Surgical System, was approved for gynecological and colorectal surgery, among other procedures. But the efficacy of either system for cancer treatment has not been evaluated by the F.D.A. And none of the systems have been cleared for mastectomy, or removal of the breast, which has become a frequent use.The F.D.A.’s approval was “based on evaluation of the device as a surgical tool and did not include evaluation of outcomes related to the treatment of cancer,” the agency said. The F.D.A. reviewed short-term data on outcomes, a spokeswoman said, not the long-term data important to cancer patients.So why are these machines allowed in cancer surgery at all? According to a spokeswoman, the F.D.A. does not regulate the practice of medicine. “If a medical provider determines it’s appropriate to use a product off-label, we don’t regulate that,” she said. “However, in this case, we were concerned about scientific journals and media reports referring to off-label uses.”Many surgeons tout the benefits of robotic surgery, with its smaller incisions, saying the procedures bring shorter recovery times, less pain or blood loss and fewer scars and infections. Those are important measures, said Dr. Ramirez. But “if you tell a patient you may stay in the hospital one or two days longer versus going home the same day, but there is a higher likelihood your cancer is going to come back, what are you going to choose as a patient? Of course, you’ll stay in the hospital.”Proposals to conduct another clinical trial to test the cervical cancer outcomes would be unethical, Dr. Ramirez said, because results from the first study were clear. Physicians who continue to use robotic and minimally invasive approaches for cancer treatment “in the face of the evidence may put themselves in legal jeopardy,” said Dr. Michael Carome, director of the health research group at Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy organization.AdvertisementSupported byThe fossil of an ancient animal teaches a sad lesson: Cancer has been around for a very, very long time. By Asher ElbeinCertainly the patient never knew where the hip pain came from, or why its left leg stopped working. The diagnosis arrived only 240 million years later, when a femur turned up in an ancient lake bed in Germany, one side marred by a malignant bone tumor.Cancer seldom appears in the fossil record, and its history among vertebrates is poorly understood. On Thursday, a team of researchers writing in JAMA Oncology have described the femur as the oldest known case of cancer in an amniote, the group that includes reptiles, birds and mammals. Modern cancers are often diagnosed through soft-tissue examinations or biopsies, but that is a difficult prospect for cancer-hunters working with cold, hard fossils. Instead, it takes luck. “When it comes to our understanding of cancer in the past, we’re really just at the beginning,” said Michaela Binder, a bioarchaeologist at the Austrian Archaeological Institute who’s researched cancer in ancient humans. “It’s not like people say, ‘Oh, I want to go study cancer in ancient turtles or in fossil mammoths,’ because we have so little evidence.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The discovery of the femur was a stroke of luck. Originally collected by Rainer Schoch of the Stuttgart State Museum of Natural History, it belonged to a wide-bodied, long-tailed animal called Pappochelys, a shell-less relative of modern turtles.The femur and its jagged growth caught the attention of Yara Haridy, a former medical student and paleontologist at the Natural History Museum, Berlin. While many paleontologists look for the cleanest — or at least most representative — remains, Ms. Haridy said, the marks left by illness and injury also can shed light on the lives of ancient animals. The study of such fossils is called paleopathology, and it combines aspects of modern forensic and medical practices. “I basically go through an elimination process, which is kind of how diagnostics in humans work,” Ms. Haridy said. “You go from the most general possibility to more specific and really strange diagnoses.”Ms. Haridy and her colleagues brought the femur to Dr. Patrick Asbach, a radiologist at the Charité, a university hospital in Berlin. Examining micro-CT scans of the bone, the researchers began running through a checklist of possible causes.“If you looked externally, you could easily think this was an incorrectly healed bone,” Ms. Haridy said. “I thought initially this animal had a broken femoral head or some sort of really bad shin splints.”Healed injuries are the most common type of fossil pathology, yet the micro-CT scans showed that underneath the growth, the bone was unbroken.So Ms. Haridy considered other possibilities. A congenital abnormality would have been present on both sides of the femur, not just one. And while friction and excessive pressure can cause bone growth, the femur would have been protected by muscles.That left the possibility of disease. But most diseases eat away at bone instead of building it up, or lead to infections that warp and wear away the underlying surface. Benign tumors can sometimes grow on bones, but they tend to be formed from cartilage and look quite different: “They either make a bunch of cartilage or start to actually reabsorb bone,” Ms. Haridy said.The team identified the swelling as an osteosarcoma, a type of bone cancer also found in humans. According to the National Organization for Rare Disorders, an estimated 750 to 1,000 cases are diagnosed in the United States every year.The find is an important data point when it comes to learning more about cancer in the vertebrate family tree, Dr. Binder said. The lack of evidence for prehistoric cancer has sometimes led researchers to speculate that the disease is a modern phenomenon related to unhealthy living, pollutant-filled environments or people getting much older than they used to in the past.Other specialists have suggested the possible presence of a tumor-suppressor gene in vertebrates, the failure of which allows benign tumors to metastasize. In the absence of fossil evidence, however, there has been no proof. Adding to the uncertainty, some animal lineages seem less susceptible to cancer than others: Crocodiles and a few other reptiles, along with sharks and naked mole rats, are rarely troubled by the disease, while tumors in invertebrates don’t much resemble those of vertebrates.AdvertisementSupported byBy Hiroko TabuchiWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.JOHNSON COUNTY, Ind. — The children fell ill, one by one, with cancers that few families in this suburban Indianapolis community had ever heard of. An avid swimmer struck down by glioblastoma, which grew a tumor in her brain. Four children with Ewing’s sarcoma, a rare bone cancer. Fifteen children with acute lymphocytic leukemia, including three cases diagnosed in the past year.At first, families put the illnesses down to misfortune. But as cases mounted, parents started to ask: Could it be something in the air or water?Their questions led them to an old industrial site in Franklin, the Johnson County seat, that the federal government had ordered cleaned up decades ago. Recent tests have identified a carcinogenic plume spreading underground, releasing vapors into homes.Now, families in a county that voted overwhelmingly for President Trump are making demands of his administration that collide directly with one of his main agendas: the rolling back of health and environmental regulations.On Wednesday, a group representing dozens of concerned parents called for a federal investigation by the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Inspector General — the same watchdog that examined the government’s slow response to the water crisis in Flint, Mich. — into why Franklin’s toxic plume of trichloroethylene, or TCE, persists.The group accuses the E.P.A. of “serious mismanagement” and “significant delays” at the site, even after the dangers became apparent this summer, according to a letter the group said it sent to the E.P.A.’s Office of the Inspector General.But the parents’ demands also reach well beyond immediate concerns about the chemicals under their feet. Families across the political spectrum have also spoken out against the Trump administration’s drive to weaken restrictions on TCE, a colorless fluid with a subtle, sweet odor used by as many as four-fifths of the nation’s 65,000 dry cleaners, as well as about 2,200 factories and other facilities. Decades ago, it was used at the Franklin site.Twice last year, parents from Johnson County traveled to Washington to urge the administration to stick with stronger controls.“We are done begging,” said Kari Rhinehart, the mother of Emma Grace Findley, the 13-year-old swimmer who developed brain cancer and died in 2014. “We are demanding the E.P.A. finish what it started and place these restrictions on TCE and other dangerous toxins.”The E.P.A. confirmed that the chemicals were present near the Franklin site and said that fewer than 10 of 37 homes it had tested had potential air quality issues. The agency said its testing was continuing and that, if necessary, homes would be fitted with devices to clean the air. Declaring TCE “carcinogenic to humans by all routes of exposure,” the Obama administration had sought to restrict two of its riskiest uses, as a stain remover and as a degreaser, and had marked it for further review, potentially to ban the chemical altogether. It had also moved to strengthen cleanup rules for hundreds of sites nationwide believed to be contaminated. But at the urging of industry groups, the Trump administration has stalled some of those moves. In 2017 it indefinitely postponed the proposed bans on risky uses, leaving as many as 178,000 workers potentially exposed. It also scaled back a broad review of TCE and other chemicals so that it would exclude from its calculations possible exposure from groundwater and other forms of contamination — the problems present in Franklin. In Johnson County, a parents’ group co-founded by Mrs. Rhinehart, If It Was Your Child, has traced at least 58 childhood cancer cases since 2008. At 21.7 cases of pediatric cancer per 100,000 children, Johnson County’s rate puts it in the 80th percentile among counties nationwide, according to data for 2011-2015 from the National Cancer Institute. Both the national and Indiana average are fewer than 18 pediatric cancers per 100,000 children. “You don’t expect to see so many cancers in a relatively small community,” said Dr. Paolo Boffetta, professor in environmental medicine and public health at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York. Even so, he stressed that there was little research linking childhood cancers to TCE. “This doesn’t mean an association doesn’t exist,” he said. “But studies have not been able to confirm it.” Motria Caudill, a scientist at the federal Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, which investigates environmental hazards, said at a community meeting in Franklin in November that it was still too early to draw conclusions. Her agency was still working with others, she said, “just to see what is going on.” The TCE contamination has been traced to a former factory that, for years, discharged industrial wastewater into a municipal sewer. Amphenol, an electronics maker based in Wallingford, Conn., became responsible for the cleanup after acquiring the site, though it no longer owns the property.In June, tests by an environmental group, Edison Wetlands Association, working with parents, detected the chemical in the air at two homes and in outdoor air near the site. The findings prompted more tests by local and state government officials, including one by Franklin that found levels more than 250 times state limits around a sewer near the homes. In November, the E.P.A. identified a plume of contamination stretching beyond the site toward nearby homes.Joseph Bianchi, an Amphenol spokesman, said the company was working “to help ensure the well-being of residents,” and the E.P.A. has promised to team up with the company on a cleanup plan. But at the November community meeting, patience wore thin. “When will this cleanup be done and gone,” asked Sonya Hallett, a local philanthropy consultant and mother of one, “and not hazardous to people who are living around it?”The state investigators who descended on Jennifer Clark’s house in October drilled into her basement floor. They sought signs that chemicals in the ground were turning into a vapor and rising into her home, a phenomenon known as “vapor intrusion.”Her daughter Chelsea learned when she was 12 that she had acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. After chemotherapy, Chelsea, now 18, is in remission; she dreams of working in the beauty industry.But over the summer, the Clarks received daunting news. Tests at their home on behalf of the Franklin parents’ group detected TCE levels more than 18 times federal limits. Testing is tricky. Results can be affected by the weather or even by doors left open, said Kelly Pennell, associate director of the federally funded Superfund Research Center at the University of Kentucky. Indeed, later tests showed lower levels in the house. Still, the Clarks remain worried. Their youngest daughter is now 12. “This is our forever home right here, where the kids are going to come back with the grandkids,” Mrs. Clark said. They live about a mile and a half from the former industrial site in Franklin, now a patch of grass bordered by old railroad tracks to the north and neat rows of homes to the south.Amphenol agreed to a cleanup in 1990, installing a “pump and treat” system that was supposed to control the contamination. For decades Amphenol pumped out groundwater, but contamination remained. The technology’s apparent ineffectiveness raises questions about hundreds of other sites using it, said Shannon Lisa, program director at Edison Wetlands.“How many other communities across the United States are facing these very same issues?” she said.Two girls lived, several years apart, in the same Franklin apartment about a mile from the toxic site. Both developed cancer, one at age 8 and the other at 14.“You can’t go anywhere, or do anything, without meeting someone who’s been affected,” said Angela Brennan, whose daughter, Karley, was one of those girls. In 2012, the family learned that Karley had cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, a rare cancer affecting the skin. Later that year, 14-year-old Madison Newton was told that she had an aggressive form of pilocytic astrocytoma, which causes tumors in the brain and spinal cord.Karley, who turns 15 this week, is in remission. Madison died in 2015. And across Franklin, If It Was Your Child yard signs dot the city, where a local TV station, WTHR Channel 13, is doggedly tracking the concerns. There are conflicting views in Johnson County of the administration’s environmental rollbacks. There is talk that the federal government should get out of people’s lives, even as local officials have called on the E.P.A. to take over the response to the contamination. “When it comes to public health, we can go against party lines. And I don’t agree with trying to roll back the E.P.A.’s role,” said Steve Barnett, Franklin’s mayor and a Republican. “Back in the day, there weren’t any rules. That’s why there was so much contamination,” he said. Many members of If It Was Your Child in the Franklin area play down the politics, noting that both parties have let the cleanup fall by the wayside. Nevertheless, their demands come at a time when the Trump administration has weakened the very rules that could prevent another Franklin.“We should not have to fight Republicans or Democrats to save our children. It’s not a political fight for us,” said Stacie Davidson, a Trump voter who co-founded the parents’ group with Mrs. Rhinehart (who didn’t vote for Mr. Trump). Mrs. Davidson said, “His loosening of E.P.A. regulations, it’s infuriating.” She added, “We’re ruining the environment for money.”Mrs. Davidson learned in 2014 that her stepson, Zane, who was 10 at the time, had a rare form of leukemia. He is now in remission. She has traveled to Washington to speak in favor of stronger TCE regulations. “What we’re fighting for is seemingly being undone right now,” she said.Still, she said, she did not regret her vote. “Trump’s a businessman. There are great things he can do for our country. But he’s used to building high rises for money,” she said. “He’s not as environmentally savvy. Our hope is that he surrounds himself with people who are more knowledgeable.”Despite the emergence of alternatives to TCE, the Trump administration has stalled action on restricting its use. “There have been greener alternatives to TCE for years,” said Tom Forsythe, an executive vice president at Kyzen, a Tennessee cleaning-materials company, who joined E.P.A. officials in a conference call in August 2017 to lay out other options.But a few months later, in October, when E.P.A. officials visited the Integer medical devices factory in Minneapolis, Minn., the agency received a different message. “According to Integer, there are no effective alternatives,” read an E.P.A. memo about the visit, which was arranged by a chemicals group, the Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance. Dry cleaners have also lobbied against a tightening of protections, arguing among other things that substitutes could harm clothing.“Yes, we have spoken to E.P.A. about our desire not to have TCE banned — as is our right of free speech,” said Faye Graul, the chemical group’s executive director. TCE “is used in tightly controlled industrial settings,” she said, “with controls in place so that no workers are harmed.”Johnson County bills itself as the festival county. In December, it hosted a holiday parade and a drive-through Nativity with live actors. And the economy is strong. A technology park measuring nearly a million square feet is soon opening in Franklin.“I see good things that Trump has done,” said Mr. Barnett, the mayor, emphasizing his town’s future. “The economy’s good. There’s been a lot of investment into our city.” Recently, though, Mrs. Rhinehart has been thinking of the past. Four Christmases ago, her daughter Emma Grace suffered two severe seizures. “She said, ‘Mommy, something’s not right,’ and I knew we weren’t going to get much more time,” Mrs. Rhinehart said, recalling their final conversation. “I gave her some medication and she drifted off to sleep.”AdvertisementSupported byBy James WagnerSandy Alderson, who left his post as the Mets’ general manager last summer because of a cancer recurrence, will return to his baseball roots now that his health has improved.The Oakland Athletics announced on Tuesday that Alderson, 71, would rejoin the club as a senior adviser in the baseball operations department, two decades after he left the team in the hands of Billy Beane.Alderson announced on Saturday at the New York Baseball Writers’ Awards dinner, where he received an award honoring his career, that he had been cancer-free for four months. He received a standing ovation.Alderson began his baseball career with the A’s in 1981 and was one of the sport’s pioneers in sabermetrics. Back then, he counseled Beane, his successor, whose reliance on advanced statistics kept the small-market team competitive and was famously documented in the book “Moneyball.”“His mentorship and friendship have been invaluable to me over the course of my career, and I look forward to the expertise and perspective he will add at every level of the organization,” Beane, the A’s executive vice president of baseball operations, said of Alderson in a statement issued by the team.Referring to David Forst, the current A’s general manager, Beane added, “David and I couldn’t be more excited to bring him back to Oakland.”Alderson was the architect of the A’s teams that won three straight American League pennants from 1988 to ’90, as well as the 1989 World Series. He left in 1998.“I am really excited to return to the A’s and the Bay Area,” Alderson said in the team’s statement. “I look forward to being as helpful as I can to Billy, David and the rest of the baseball operations staff.”After his 17-season stint with the Athletics, Alderson spent seven years working in Major League Baseball headquarters and four years as the chief executive of the San Diego Padres, before going back to the M.L.B. commissioner’s office for a year.From October 2010 until June 2018, Alderson served as the Mets’ general manager, guiding them from a period of financial austerity to the 2015 World Series, during which he dealt with his initial cancer diagnosis, and to a 2016 wild-card game.Then came a 92-loss season in 2017, a rough first half in 2018 and the cancer recurrence. Alderson took an indefinite leave of absence, with the expectation that the Mets would find a replacement. The team hired Brodie Van Wagenen as their new general manager in October.In other front-office news, the Mets announced that their longtime assistant general manager, John Ricco, had moved into a newly created position with the title of senior vice president, senior strategy officer. Ricco, 50, joined the Mets in 2004 and served as a right-hand man to four general managers.AdvertisementSupported byBy Iliana MagraLONDON — More than 5,000 people stunned event organizers last weekend when they answered a call for a stem cell donor for a 5-year-old cancer patient, breaking Britain’s record for such an event.The patient, Oscar Saxelby-Lee, received a diagnosis in December of T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a rare and aggressive cancer that causes the bone marrow to release immature white blood cells. The disease afflicts about 650 people a year in Britain, according to the National Heath Service.Oscar underwent intense chemotherapy treatment for four weeks, but doctors say he needs a stem cell transplant within three months.Oscar’s cause was taken up by the community and particularly his school, Pitmaston Primary School in Worcester, a city in central England. “We decided we would do whatever it takes to find a donor for Oscar,” Sue Bladen, the school’s business manager, said in a telephone interview.The school started a crowdfunding page in February along with Olivia Saxelby and Jamie Lee, Oscar’s parents. The fund-raiser has already exceeded its original 5,000-pound target, gathering more than 8,600 pounds, or about $11,300, so far.After doctors made clear the need for a stem cell transplant, Oscar’s school and his parents decided to organize a donor event through DKMS, an international nonprofit organization focused on finding donors for blood cancer patients. Anyone aged 17 to 55 was eligible to come in and register as a donor, Ms. Bladen said.The cause was popular from the start: More than 200 volunteers arrived from across Britain to help with everything from registering donors to manning the school parking lot for the event.But the turnout far exceeded even the most optimistic expectations.More than 1,800 donors were registered on Saturday, the first day of the event. And Sunday was “absolutely wild,” said Ms. Bladen, as more than 3,000 people showed up to become potential donors.“People queued around the block, in the pouring rain, and nobody moaned about it,” she said. “The spirit we had here was absolutely incredible, the generosity of people,” she added.The turnout prompted Ms. Saxelby and Mr. Lee to leave Birmingham Children’s Hospital, where Oscar has been hospitalized since December, to come to the school to thank some of the possible donors in person.“Leaving Oscar this morning to show our gratitude to all those who have stood by our side and done their bit to help save our beautiful, kind and loving boy was very difficult, but on return his little face lit up as we shared all the lovely videos,” Ms. Saxelby said in a Facebook post on Sunday.“What a fantastic turn out for our little warrior and those in need of a stem cell transplant,” Mr. Lee wrote on Facebook. “This gives us more and more hope in finding a match for our Ozzy Bear.”According to DKMS, 4,855 people registered at Pitmaston Primary School over the weekend, breaking the organization’s event record in Britain and increasing the odds for Oscar and others waiting for a stem cell transplant to find a suitable donor.And the registrations didn’t end when the donor drive was over.“Incredible to hear that another 1,000 people registered with DKMS online last weekend,” bringing the total to 5,800, Kate Wilcock, the head teacher at Pitmaston Primary, said on Twitter on Monday.Ms. Bladen, the school’s business manager, said that they were “delighted” by the turnout as they “are hoping to help as many people as possible,” but also because time is critical.It will take a minimum of six weeks to determine whether one of the potential donors is a suitable match for Oscar, said Lisa Nugent, the head of donor recruitment for DKMS, in a telephone interview.“It’s incredibly difficult to find someone who is a suitable match because there are 17,000 HLA characteristics that have to be looked at,” Ms. Nugent said.But she is hopeful they will find a match for Oscar, partly because of his ethnicity — “white British people are better represented at the register,” she said — and partly because so many people have come forward.Oscar is aware of his situation, but his spirit remains high, his parents said. They posted a photo of him smiling playfully on his way to a bone marrow test, a white tube inserted in his nose held in place by two teddy bear adhesives.“This cheeky chops is about to go down to theater for a bone marrow aspirate and lumbar puncture,” the caption read.“He knows what’s going on, there’s no way we can shelter him from the treatment and what is to come, but just look at his courage, the constant strength he shows and the determination in his eyes!”More swabbing test and charity fund-raiser events for Oscar are scheduled to take place in Worcester, Plymouth, Northampton and Birmingham until April.AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie Thomas and Charles OrnsteinThis article was reported and written in collaboration with ProPublica, the nonprofit journalism organization.Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, one of the world’s leading research institutions, announced on Friday that it would bar its top executives from serving on corporate boards of drug and health care companies that, in some cases, had paid them hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.Hospital officials also told the center’s staff that the executive board had made permanent a series of reforms designed to limit the ways in which its top executives and leading researchers could profit from work developed at Memorial Sloan Kettering, a nonprofit with a broad social mission that admits about 23,500 cancer patients each year.The conflicts at Memorial Sloan Kettering, unearthed by The New York Times and ProPublica, have had a rippling effect on other leading cancer institutions across the country. Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, both of whose executives sit on corporate boards, are among the institutions reconsidering their policies on financial ties.In the wake of reports about board memberships held by Memorial Sloan Kettering officials last fall, Dr. Craig B. Thompson, the hospital’s chief executive, resigned in October from the board of Merck. The company, which makes the blockbuster cancer drug Keytruda, had paid him about $300,000 in 2017 for his service.The announcement on Friday was one of several steps the cancer center said it was considering as part of an institutionwide overhaul of its corporate relationships and conflict-of-interest policies. The cancer center has hired Deloitte as well as two law firms, Ropes & Gray and Debevoise & Plimpton, to help conduct its reviews.Debra Berns, the center’s chief risk officer, also said in an email to employees that the hospital’s Board of Overseers and Managers formalized a policy enacted last fall that prohibits board members from investing in start-up companies that Memorial Sloan Kettering helped to found. In addition, it also prevents hospital employees who represent Memorial Sloan Kettering on corporate boards from accepting personal compensation, like equity stakes or stock options, from the companies.Changes in conflict-of-interest policies. Jan. 11, 2019Dr. Walid Gellad, director of the Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Prescribing at the University of Pittsburgh, called the policy changes a “watershed moment.”“This is highly significant, especially at such a high-profile academic center,” Dr. Gellad said in an email. “Leadership matters, and the institution has decided that their leaders should not also be concurrently leading for-profit health companies.”When doctors enter into financial relationships with companies, the concern is that these ties can shape the way studies are designed and medications are prescribed to patients, potentially allowing bias to influence medical practice. A 2014 study in JAMA found that about 40 percent of the largest publicly traded drug companies had a leader of an academic medical center on their boards.Ms. Berns said the Memorial Sloan Kettering board’s policy decision was intended to emphasize the hospital’s focus on education, research and treatment of patients. Dr. Nadeem R. Abu-Rustum, who is president of Memorial Sloan Kettering’s medical staff, said the policy changes were “well-received” by employees.Memorial Sloan Kettering has been shaken by the unfolding series of conflicts of interest since September, when The Times and ProPublica reported that its chief medical officer, Dr. José Baselga, had failed to disclose millions of dollars in payments from drug and health care companies in dozens of articles in medical journals.Dr. Baselga resigned days later, and he also stepped down from the boards of the drugmaker Bristol-Myers Squibb and Varian Medical Systems, a radiation equipment manufacturer. Earlier this month, AstraZeneca announced that it had hired Dr. Baselga to run its new oncology unit.Additional reports detailed how other top officials had cultivated lucrative relationships with for-profit companies, including an artificial intelligence start-up, Paige.AI, that was founded by a member of Memorial Sloan Kettering’s executive board, the chair of the pathology department and the head of a research lab. The hospital struck an exclusive deal with the company to license images of 25 million patient tissue slides that had been collected over decades.Another article detailed how a hospital vice president was given a stake of nearly $1.4 million in a newly public company as compensation for representing Memorial Sloan Kettering on its board.When news of Dr. Baselga’s disclosure lapses first became public, 12 doctors and researchers at the hospital served on the boards of publicly traded companies. The number has now dropped to nine.On October 1, some doctors at the hospital called for a no-confidence vote in Dr. Thompson’s leadership and questioned whether the industry relationships were jeopardizing the hospital’s mission.No such vote was taken, but a day later, Dr. Thompson stepped down from the boards of Merck and Charles River Laboratories, which assists in early drug development.The hospital task force is expected to release draft recommendations in February and will solicit feedback from employees, Ms. Berns said in the memo released Friday. The review is also expected to examine faculty membership on corporate boards, participation on companies’ scientific advisory boards, and doctors’ and researchers’ consulting relationships with drug and health care companies.Memorial Sloan Kettering will also host a symposium in February on disclosing conflicts of interest in medical journals, in what Ms. Berns described as “a first step toward developing a common framework that harmonizes financial disclosures in research publications.”Ms. Berns delivered details of the review at a medical staff meeting Friday morning that was also attended by Dr. Lisa DeAngelis, the hospital’s acting physician-in-chief. During the meeting, Dr. DeAngelis sought to reassure employees that hospital leaders were taking their concerns seriously while also defending the hospital’s reputation as a world-renowned cancer center, according to accounts of the meeting.At one point, according to the accounts, Dr. DeAngelis celebrated recent good news for the institution, including the Food and Drug Administration’s approval of a new cancer drug, Vitravki, developed at the hospital.She also cited internal research that she said showed Memorial Sloan Kettering’s treatment of the Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg had received positive press that overshadowed the recent conflict-of-interest coverage.Justice Ginsburg is recovering from cancer surgery on her left lung that was performed at the center. The Supreme Court announced on Friday that she was still recovering and would not be on the bench next week, but that there was no evidence of any more cancer.Charles Ornstein is a senior editor at ProPublica.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany Hsu and Katie ThomasBristol-Myers Squibb said on Thursday that it would buy Celgene, a maker of cancer-fighting drugs, in a cash-and-stock deal valued at $74 billion, the first major pharmaceutical deal of 2019.Between them, the two companies produce nine drugs with annual sales of more than $1 billion apiece, Bristol-Myers said in a statement.Bristol-Myers shareholders will own 69 percent of the combined entity; Celgene shareholders will own the rest. Celgene shareholders will get one Bristol-Myers share and $50 in cash for each Celgene share. The deal values Celgene shares at $102.43 apiece, a 53.7 percent premium on the stock’s closing price on Wednesday.The deal, which both companies’ boards have approved, will help the drugmakers advance their work in oncology, cardiovascular disease, immunology and inflammation, Bristol-Myers said in its statement. Celgene is known for its blockbuster Thalomid and Revlimid cancer medicines.“We are very excited about this,” Dr. Giovanni Caforio, the chief executive and chairman of Bristol-Myers, said in an interview Thursday.Shares of Celgene, which is based in Summit, N.J., were up around 25 percent by midday on Thursday, while shares in Bristol-Meyers, which has its headquarters in New York, were down about 13 percent.The transaction comes after a rocky period for Celgene. The company’s share price fell about 40 percent over the past year amid concerns that it was relying too heavily on Revlimid, which accounts for about two-thirds of its sales. The drug faces a so-called patent cliff, when its patents will expire and cheaper generic rivals could enter the market.Celgene, citing concerns for patient safety, has resisted sharing Revlimid samples with potential rivals, hoping to produce less-expensive generic versions of the drug. Celgene tops a Food and Drug Administration list meant to shame companies trying to block such competition. The company has also been criticized for raising the prices of Revlimid and other medications, and has had  setbacks in its drug-development pipeline.In 2017, Celgene, without acknowledging wrongdoing, agreed to pay a total of $280 million to the federal government, 28 states and the District of Columbia to settle claims that it had marketed Thalomid and Revlimid for unapproved uses.Last January, Celgene agreed to pay up to $7 billion to acquire the biotechnology company Impact Biomedicines in hopes of expanding its presence in the market for blood-disease drugs. Shortly after that, Celgene announced a $9 billion deal to buy Juno Therapeutics, a start-up that is developing potentially groundbreaking cancer treatments, in which it already had a roughly 10 percent stake.The price of Celgene’s drugs became a political issue in New Jersey last year when Bob Hugin, who spent seven years as the company’s chief executive, ran unsuccessfully as a Republican against Senator Robert Menendez, the incumbent Democrat.During Mr. Hugin’s nearly 20 years at Celgene, the company raised the price of Revlimid to $16,000 from $6,000. He stepped down as chief executive in 2017.Like Celgene, Bristol-Myers has focused on cancer treatments. Its products include the drugs Opdivo and Yervoy, which were among the first so-called immunotherapy drugs to use the body’s immune system to fight cancer. They are also expensive, costing $100,000 a year.Sales of Opdivo have lagged behind a competing Merck drug, Keytruda. In 2016, Opdivo failed as an initial treatment for lung cancer in a clinical trial, causing Bristol-Myers’s stock price to sink.AdvertisementSupported byBy Coral DavenportWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — The Environmental Protection Agency on Thursday said it will start work by the end of the year on a long-awaited plan to set national drinking-water limits for two harmful chemicals linked to cancer, low infant birth weight and other health issues.But environmentalists and Democratic lawmakers criticized the plan, saying it in effect delayed desperately needed regulation on a clear public health threat from chemicals that are commonly used in cookware, pizza boxes, stain repellents and fire retardants. E.P.A. officials described their proposal as the “first-ever nationwide action plan” to address the health effects of human-made chemicals known as poly- and perfluoroalkyl substances, or PFASs. There currently no federal regulations on the production or monitoring of that class of about 5,000 chemicals, which are manufactured and used in a wide variety of industries and products. Studies have shown that they can linger in the human body for years, causing harmful health impacts.“The PFAS action plan is the most comprehensive action plan for a chemical of concern ever undertaken by the agency,” said Dave Ross, E.P.A.’s assistant administrator for water, in a telephone call with reporters on Thursday. Andrew Wheeler, the E.P.A.’s acting administrator, who is now President Trump’s nominee to head the agency, called the plan a “pivotal moment in the history of the agency.”The American Chemistry Council, an industry lobbying group, voiced support for the plan. “We continue to support strong national leadership in addressing PFAS and firmly believe that E.P.A. is best positioned to provide the public with a comprehensive strategy informed by a full understanding of the safety and benefits of different PFAS chemistries,” it said in a statement.Critics called on the agency to move more quickly, citing 2016 action by the Obama administration on two of the chemicals that suggested the urgency of the risk.“While E.P.A. acts with the utmost urgency to repeal regulations, the agency ambles with complacency when it comes to taking real steps to protect the water we drink and the air we breathe,” said Senator Tom Carper of Delaware, the ranking Democrat on the Senate Environment Committee.After a public outcry over tests showing dangerous levels of PFASs in communities around the United States, particularly around military bases and fire stations, the E.P.A. under the Obama administration in 2016 proposed creating a national standard for limiting the levels in drinking water of two of the most prevalent varieties of PFAS chemicals, known as PFOA and PFOS.It also issued a health advisory recommending that water utilities and public health officials monitor levels of the two chemicals in public water supplies, and notify the public if the combined levels of those chemicals reached 70 parts per trillion. A draft report released last year by the Department of Health and Human Services recommended that the “minimal risk level” for exposure to those two chemicals should be less than half that amount.Given the available data on the effect of PFAS chemicals, environmentalists criticized the E.P.A.’s response as inadequate to the threat.Scott Faber, an expert on chemical policy with the Environmental Working Group, an advocacy organization, called it a “drinking water crisis facing millions of Americans.” But the E.P.A., he said, is “just not treating the crisis the way it deserves.”In particular, critics of the E.P.A. have sited the role of Nancy Beck, a former senior director of regulatory science policy at the American Chemistry Council, in a slowdown of the agency’s response to addressing PFASs. Last May, Scott Pruitt, the previous administrator of the E.P.A., convened a summit aimed at addressing the threat of PFAS chemicals, an announced that, as a first step, the E.P.A. would decide whether to set a national drinking water standard for PFOA and PFOS. Mr. Wheeler said Thursday that the agency intends to act quickly to begin that regulatory process.“Our goal is to close the gap on the science as quickly as possible,” he said, adding that the agency is also looking into technology to clean or reduce PFAS chemicals from drinking water.But Mr. Wheeler did not offer a clear timeline of when such a standard might be completed. Such regulatory processes can often take years. Mr. Carper suggested that the E.P.A.’s failure to provide a clear timeline on completing the standard could influence the outcome of Mr. Wheeler’s Senate confirmation vote to lead the E.P.A., although given the Republican majority in the Senate, his confirmation is still likely assured.“I urge Mr. Wheeler to reverse course and treat this public health threat with the urgency it deserves,” Mr. Carper said. “And I ask my colleagues in the Senate to take note of Mr. Wheeler’s lack of urgency in addressing this threat as they consider his nomination to be E.P.A.’s permanent administrator.”For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jeffery C. MaysFatima Ali, who was voted by fans of the television show “Top Chef” as their favorite contestant of Season 15, died on Friday at her family’s home in San Marino, Calif. She was 29.A brother, Mohammad Ali, said the cause was cancer.While her season of the reality culinary competition show was airing, Ms. Ali announced in 2017 that she had Ewing’s sarcoma, which affects bone and soft tissue.Ms. Ali chronicled her fight against the rare form of cancer on social media. Interspersed with pictures of food on her Instagram page were photos of her in the hospital, her head bald from chemotherapy treatments in some and dyed platinum blond in others.“I know it’s been ages since I posted and most may have figured out why,” Ms. Ali wrote on Instagram on Jan. 10. “I’m sick and unfortunately I’m getting sicker. Right now all I need are prayers; prayers that are simple.”As news of Ms. Ali’s death spread, friends and colleagues posted tributes on social media.“Live your life as she did — to the fullest. Pursue your passion,” Ms. Ali’s family wrote on Instagram.Fatima Ali was born on Aug. 8, 1989, in Lahore, Pakistan. Mr. Ali said his sister would watch culinary reality shows on television as a child and dream of becoming a chef.She moved to the United States when she was 18 to attend culinary school. When she graduated from the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y., in 2011, Ms. Ali said, her mother wanted her to return home. But she sought to stay a year in New York to work in the culinary field.She began her career as a junior sous chef at Café Centro in New York before becoming the youngest executive sous chef at Stella 34 Trattoria at the Macy’s in Herald Square, according to Bravo, the network that broadcasts “Top Chef.” Ms. Ali also worked as executive sous chef at La Fonda Del Sol.Before appearing on “Top Chef,” Ms. Ali became the first Pakistani woman to win on another cooking reality show, “Chopped.” But Mr. Ali said his sister’s desire to be a chef on television was not just because she wanted to be famous.“Pakistan gets a bad rap when it comes up in the media,” he said. “It’s about terrorism, violence or upheaval. Fatima wanted everyday people to associate Pakistan with other things and change the narrative.”Joe Flamm, 32, who won the season of “Top Chef” that Ms. Ali appeared on, recalled eating a dish of oxtail biryani that she prepared for show contestants.The braised oxtails were immaculately tender, simmered to the point that the boiled eggs and chickpeas sponged up the flavor from the meat, making the chickpeas rich and creamy, he said on Saturday. It was served over delicately fluffy jasmine rice.“It was one of those dishes that told you everything you needed to know about a person,” said Mr. Flamm, the executive chef of Cafe Spiaggia in Chicago. “It was so soulful but also technically perfect. It was her.”In addition to her brother, Ms. Ali is survived by her mother, Farezeh Durrani; father, Ashtar Ausaf Ali; sisters Saadia Ismail, Sarah Ismail and Zahra Ali; and brothers Amin Ali and Ali-Imtiaz Bangash.Ms. Ali first learned of her cancer in 2017 while working on a pop-up restaurant at the United States Open.“I’d had this weird ache in my shoulder for the past couple of months that I’d been ignoring. You know, popping a couple of Advils, going to sleep,” Ms. Ali wrote in an essay for Bon Appétit that the magazine published online after her death on Friday.The pain became unbearable and she went to the emergency room, where tests led to the cancer diagnosis. After surgery to remove a tumor in her shoulder and chemotherapy, Ms. Ali said doctors told her she was cancer-free.“Then it came back. Worse than before. It was metastatic. It had spread to my lungs,” Ms. Ali wrote. “The doctors told me I had a year to live.”Ms. Ali pledged to make the most of her remaining time, and to tour the world “eating all this absolutely delicious food,” she said during an appearance on Ellen DeGeneres’s talk show in November.Ms. DeGeneres presented Ms. Ali with a $50,000 check from Shutterfly, her show’s philanthropic partner, to help with that goal.In the same month, Ms. Ali ate with Mr. Flamm at Masa, described in 2011 by The New York Times as a “stupendously expensive sushi emporium” that offered tastes and preparations that were “unforgettable.”While the chef Masayoshi Takayama prepared their food, Ms. Ali, who kept in her wallet a crumpled napkin with a list of people she wanted to make amends with before she died, talked about how forgiveness and love were the most important things in the world and how she planned to travel to Europe and eat at the great restaurants.The dinner could only be described as hopeful.AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg returned to the Supreme Court bench on Tuesday, about two months after cancer surgery. She had missed arguments in the meantime, in her first absences since she joined the court in 1993, but had continued to participate in the court’s decisions by reading briefs and transcripts.Tuesday’s argument was a technical one, considering whether the federal government may challenge patents in a specialized court. Justice Ginsburg asked crisp and clear questions of both sides, and she seemed to express skepticism of one aspect of the government’s argument.“The government effectively gets two bites of the apple,” she said, characterizing the patent owner’s argument in the case, Return Mail Inc. v. United States Postal Service, No. 17-1594. “Everybody else gets just one.”The court has said that post-surgery evaluations have shown that Justice Ginsburg, who is 85 and has suffered a number of health setbacks over the years, is cancer free.Before the justices took the bench, the Supreme Court issued a decision in a death penalty case and agreed to hear a case on water pollution.In the capital case, Moore v. Texas, No. 18-443, the court ruled that Bobby James Moore, a death row inmate in Texas, was intellectually disabled. Although the court did not say so in so many words, its ruling effectively overturned Mr. Moore’s death sentence, as its 2002 decision in Atkins v. Virginia barred the execution of the intellectually disabled as a violation of the Eighth Amendment’s ban on cruel and unusual punishment.Mr. Moore has been on death row since 1980 for fatally shooting a 72-year-old Houston supermarket clerk, James McCarble, during a robbery.The unsigned decision followed a 2017 decision from the Supreme Court in the same case. By a 5-to-3 vote, the court had instructed the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals to take a fresh look at the case, saying it had failed to keep up with current medical consensus, relied too heavily on I.Q. scores and took account of factors rooted in stereotypes.Last year the Texas court reaffirmed its earlier decision, and Mr. Moore again appealed to the Supreme Court. In Tuesday’s ruling, the majority expressed frustration with the state court.“We have found in its opinion too many instances in which, with small variations, it repeats the analysis we previously found wanting, and these same parts are critical to its ultimate conclusion,” the majority said.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who was in dissent in 2017, this time joined the majority.Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., joined by Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch, dissented, saying the majority had overstepped its authority by making factual rather than legal determinations. Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh did not note a dissent and presumably voted with the majority.Also on Tuesday, the Supreme Court agreed to hear a case on the scope of the Clean Water Act. The court will decide whether Maui County in Hawaii needed a permit to indirectly dispose of treated wastewater in the Pacific.Lower courts are split over whether permits are required when pollutants travel underground before reaching an ocean, river or other waterway. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, ruled against the county.“At bottom, this case is about preventing the county from doing indirectly that which it cannot do directly,” Judge Dorothy W. Nelson wrote for a unanimous three-judge panel. “To hold otherwise would make a mockery” of the Clean Water Act.The Trump administration had urged the Supreme Court to hear the case, County of Maui v. Hawaii Wildlife Fund, No. 18-260.AdvertisementSupported byBy Charles Ornstein and Katie ThomasThis article was reported and written in collaboration with ProPublica, a nonprofit journalism organization.Top officials at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center repeatedly violated policies on financial conflicts of interest, fostering a culture in which profits appeared to take precedence over research and patient care, according to details released on Thursday from an outside review.The findings followed months of turmoil over executives’ ties to drug and health care companies at one of the nation’s leading cancer centers. The review, conducted by the law firm Debevoise & Plimpton, was outlined at a staff meeting on Thursday morning.It concluded that officials frequently violated or skirted their own policies; that hospital leaders’ ties to companies were likely considered on an ad hoc basis rather than through rigorous vetting; and that researchers were often unaware that some senior executives had financial stakes in the outcomes of their studies.In acknowledging flaws in its oversight of conflicts of interest, the cancer center announced on Thursday an extensive overhaul of policies governing employees’ relationships with outside companies and financial arrangements — including public disclosure of doctors’ ties to corporations and limits on outside work.The review was one of several steps the nonprofit cancer center has taken in the wake of reports last year by The New York Times and ProPublica that several top executives and board members had profited from relationships with drug companies, outside research ventures or corporate board memberships. Those revelations prompted Memorial Sloan Kettering, based in New York, to hire outside firms to conduct inquiries into those relationships as well as into internal allegations of ethical lapses.The scrutiny of researchers’ stakes in start-ups has intensified at a time when venture capitalists are betting millions of dollars on the next potential cure for cancer and when expensive treatments like immunotherapy have fueled public concern over rising drug prices.The spotlight on the deals at Memorial Sloan Kettering also swayed other leading cancer centers, like Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, to reconsider their policies.Dr. Walid Gellad, director of the Center for Pharmaceutical Policy and Prescribing at the University of Pittsburgh, said the changes appeared to be more comprehensive than those in place at many other health care institutions.The nonprofit institution is overhauling its procedures governing relationships and financial ties to corporations. (PDF, 9 pages, 0.14 MB)“Memorial Sloan Kettering really does seem to be taking this seriously and this document, I think, shows it,” he said, referring to the hospital’s revised policies. “Kudos to them.”At the staff meeting, Mark P. Goodman, co-chairman of the law firm’s commercial litigation group, told doctors that the review found “a number of instances of serious noncompliance with M.S.K.’s conflict-of-interest policies,” according to a recording. A spokesman for the hospital, Mike Morey, declined to provide a copy of the Debevoise firm’s findings.The conflicts and some profit-making deals — which were not specified at the meeting — did not occur through intentional misconduct, Mr. Goodman said. Rather, the review exposed inadequate oversight and a lack of established protocols for examining whether employees’ and executives’ affiliations with corporations could result in biased results that favored a company’s products.Mr. Goodman also said the review, involving interviews with 36 current and former employees and board members and an examination of 25,000 documents, did not find that the ethical shortcomings had hurt patients or compromised research. In an email, Mr. Goodman disputed the characterization of the findings as violations of rules and said the report did not conclude that top officials acted in a concerted way. In his presentation, he referred instead to “noncompliance” with hospital policies and to instances where executives appeared not to have followed existing policies.Scott Stuart, chairman of the cancer center’s Boards of Overseers and Managers, said in an emailed statement: “We took a deep and honest look at what went wrong at our own institution, examined what was occurring in the wider cancer research community, and are putting in place best practices that will not only allow us to learn from our mistakes, but will contribute to best practices for the wider research community.”The cancer center has been reeling from the series of reports by The Times and ProPublica, including that its chief medical officer, Dr. José Baselga, had failed to disclose millions of dollars in payments from drug and health care companies in dozens of articles in medical journals.Dr. Baselga resigned in September, and he also stepped down from the boards of the drug maker Bristol-Myers Squibb and Varian Medical Systems, a radiation equipment manufacturer. The British-Swedish drug maker AstraZeneca hired Dr. Baselga to run its new oncology unit this year.Additional reports detailed how other top officials at Memorial Sloan Kettering had cultivated lucrative relationships with for-profit companies, including an artificial intelligence start-up, Paige.AI, that was founded by a member of the cancer center’s executive board, the chairman of its pathology department and the head of one of its research laboratories. The hospital struck an exclusive deal with the company to license images of 25 million patient tissue slides that had been collected over decades.Another article detailed how a hospital vice president was given a nearly $1.4 million stake in a newly public company as compensation for representing Memorial Sloan Kettering on its board.In October, Memorial Sloan Kettering’s chief executive, Dr. Craig B. Thompson, resigned from the boards of Charles River Laboratories, an early-stage research company, and the drugmaker Merck.Then, in January, Memorial Sloan Kettering went a step further, barring its top executives from serving on the corporate boards of drug and health care companies. Hospital officials also instituted policy changes to limit the ways in which its top executives and leading researchers could profit from work developed at Memorial Sloan Kettering, which admits about 23,500 cancer patients each year.Mr. Goodman said at the staff meeting that the law firm had not found evidence of intentional wrongdoing — defined as “a conscious decision to engage in misconduct” — by the hospital’s leaders or board members.“Although we did not identify evidence of breaches of fiduciary duty, we did find that processes and controls for the review and management of senior executive and board-level conflicts were deficient and resulted in instances of noncompliance with M.S.K. policies,” Mr. Goodman said.Specifically, he noted, plans to manage executive conflicts of interest, a requirement at the hospital, “were not implemented because it was felt to be unnecessary or because there was a failure to realize that a management plan was needed.”Mr. Goodman also said that hospital leaders’ corporate ties were handled differently from other employees. Beginning in 2014, senior executives were no longer required to vet financial relationships with a conflict-of-interest advisory committee because the hospital felt the committee should not be asked to make decisions about executives to whom it reported. While Mr. Goodman said that rationale made sense, the general counsel’s office — tasked with overseeing the leaders’ conflicts — did not put in place formal procedures to examine potential problems.“As a result,” Mr. Goodman said, “conflicts were allowed to persist without formal firewalls in place.”Hospital leaders also did not always disclose to faculty and staff when they had relationships to companies whose research was being conducted at Memorial Sloan Kettering, Mr. Goodman said.The policy changes that Memorial Sloan Kettering announced on Thursday include the creation of a board committee to focus on overseeing conflicts, an existing hospital policy that the law firm learned had not been carried out.The hospital also said it would disclose financial interests of faculty members and researchers on its website and create a more centralized review of conflicts between employees’ work at the hospital and their outside duties.Other changes included new limits on how income is distributed from research discoveries that originate at Memorial Sloan Kettering, and regular audits to ensure the hospital is complying with its own rules. The cancer center reinforced its earlier statements that many profits from outside work should flow back to M.S.K. research.Heather H. Pierce, the senior director for science policy and regulatory counsel at the Association of American Medical Colleges, said the hospital decided to undergo a review that “was far broader than the initial concerns that were raised.” As an outside member of the task force recommending changes, Ms. Pierce noted that “there was nothing that wasn’t up for discussion.”Dr. Gellad, of the University of Pittsburgh, said the issues raised at a prominent institution like Memorial Sloan Kettering have placed others on notice. “We’ve seen what happens when these conflicts, even if they’re only perceived, they lead to problems in terms of how an institution is judged,” Dr. Gellad said. “Every institution, if they’re not, should look to see how that impacted Memorial Sloan Kettering.”Charles Ornstein is a deputy managing editor at ProPublica.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported bymeanwhileAdvertisementSupported byLiving With cancerWhile medicine transforms cancer into a chronic disease with which patients can live for an extended period of time, financial toxicity threatens to turn chronic, too.By Susan GubarIt sometimes seems baffling to me: I put my life on the line for research to produce a cancer medication that — if and when it is put on the market — I probably could not afford. Its miraculous prolongation of my existence, for which I am ever grateful, deepens my concern about those who will be unable to benefit from it.When I enrolled in a Phase I clinical trial in 2012, I knew that the pills had never before been tested on human beings. The risk was great, but the drug was free. Were it to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration, it would probably be priced like a similar drug for recurrent ovarian cancer, a Parp inhibitor called Rucaparib: about $20,000 a month. Would I have been able to negotiate with my insurance company to plunk down a mind-boggling $240,000 a year for a medication that might not have worked? Even if I could have guessed that this drug would be effective, where would I have come up with the money to keep paying for it? I have already used it for six years, at what could have been a cost of $1,440,000.We are all familiar with the physical toxicity triggered ironically by both cancer and its treatments: pain, fatigue, nausea, weight loss, edema, constipation and diarrhea. These ills can be acute (harmful in the short term), sub-chronic (harmful for more than a year) or chronic (harmful over an extended period or a lifetime). Increasingly, investigators like Dr. S. Yousuf Zafar use the term financial toxicity to describe the acute, sub-chronic and chronic burdens of insured, underinsured and uninsured people impaired or destroyed by the high costs of care. While medicine transforms cancer into a chronic disease with which patients can live for an extended period of time, financial toxicity threatens to turn chronic, too.A white paper by Family Reach, a national nonprofit dedicated to alleviating the financial burden of cancer, and Xcenda, a consulting group, draws on earlier studies to explain that “Adult patients are 2.65 times more likely to file for bankruptcy than patients of a similar age without cancer. Patients who filed for bankruptcy had a 79 percent greater risk of early mortality than patients who did not.” In other words, cancer treatment escalates the possibility of penury, and treatment-produced fiscal catastrophes are tied to cancer deaths.The links between cancer regimens or outcomes and economic ruin do not constrict only the elderly. Young adults with cancer have two to five times higher rates of bankruptcy than seniors, many of whom can depend on Medicare and Social Security. Most of the parents of kids with cancer experience work disruptions because of the need to accompany their children to lengthy treatments; about 15 percent quit their jobs or are laid off. Pediatric patients who live in poverty tend to relapse more often than well-off kids: housing instability, poor nutrition and unavailable transportation take a toll.A cluster of insured patients suffers the acute or sub-chronic monetary injuries of cancer treatments because of the astronomical price of new protocols. The first CAR T-Cell immunotherapy drug was priced at about $475,000 for a one-time treatment. Enasidenib for acute myeloid leukemia costs about $25,000 a month. Even with conventional treatment, out-of-pocket outlays for pricey drugs and procedures can skyrocket when people have high cost-sharing plans. Wage losses caused by hospital stays compound the problem that insurance rarely covers all the nonmedical expenses of standard care: travel, lodging at hotels, special nutritional and therapeutic and equipment needs, child- or elder-care assistance. Quite a few patients deplete their savings or go into debt.Still others take less than the dosages of medicines prescribed or skip appointments, procedures and scans. The medical adjective for many of these patients, “noncompliant,” and the medical term for their behavior, “nonadherence,” are insulting. These patients are not perversely refusing to follow instructions; nor are they failing to stick with their doctor’s plan. They simply don’t have the cash for the medicine prescribed. Their solution — to forgo treatment — seems neither smarter nor dumber than the decision of others to do whatever it takes to cover costs.In the International Journal of Radiation Oncology in 2016, Dr. Fumiko Chino, a radiation oncologist at Duke University Medical Center, reported the results of a survey on this second group. According to her study of patients’ anticipation of financial burdens, 50 percent of those polled were willing to declare bankruptcy to pay for continued care; 39 percent were willing to sell their homes. A large proportion of the participants had late-stage disease, suggesting that cancer patients may not fully comprehend the often limited or nonexistent gains such financial sacrifices tend to produce.Dr. Chino has explained that she was drawn to investigate financial toxicity because in her 20s, she and her husband found that his student insurance did not cover most of the expenses they incurred in dealing with his fatal neuroendocrine carcinoma. As a young widow, she confronted a debt of hundreds of thousands of dollars.When I polled friends in treatment on what they would pay to stay alive with cancer, quite a few admitted that they would go for broke to witness the inauguration of another president. But not one of them has been told by a physician what treatment will cost. Although prominent oncologists have called for transparent communications about finances between doctors and patients, in my circle they are not taking place.Nor does the money drain end with an individual’s cure. Many survivors, especially children and young adults, require follow-up screenings and tests (to monitor the deleterious effects of successful treatments) that quite a few insurance plans will not cover.AdvertisementSupported byI used to think everything worked out for the best. But then my wife got cancer. By Michael David LukasMr. Lukas is a novelist. I’m turning 40 this week, and I’m still not sure what to do about it. Originally, I wanted to have a big party, a bacchanalian blowout to celebrate the official end of my youth. But then I thought better of the idea. What I really wanted was a childless weekend with my wife away in the Napa Valley. Even one night would be enough, so long as there was time for a soak, a meal, maybe a massage.This was the plan until a few months ago when my wife was told she had colon cancer and our weekend getaway in wine country took a back seat to everything else.“We should still do something,” she said the other night at dinner. “You only turn 40 once.”At this, my older daughter, who is 3½, looked up from her noodles.“Does 40 mean you die?” she asked.If she had asked this question a few months earlier, I probably wouldn’t have thought twice about saying, in the age-old way of parents, that Mommy and Daddy are going to be around for a long, long time. But given the circumstances, I felt as though I had to tell her the truth, or at least some approximation of it.“No one knows when they’re going to die,” I said. Then, not wanting to scare her too much, I added, “But we hope we’re going to be around for a long, long time.”Actuarially speaking, 40 is smack-dab in the middle of life. It’s the end of the beginning and the beginning of the end. Which is probably why the milestone has so much resonance. The classic midlife crisis — buying a sports car or a boat — may not be as prevalent as it once was. Still, it’s hard to pass by 40 without reflecting on one’s path through life.For me, turning 40 isn’t about going bald or tallying up my professional accomplishments. It’s a process of coming to terms with the unknown — with the space between “going to” and “hope.” It’s a shift in perspective, moving from my youthful optimism that everything would work out in the end to a tenuous but ultimately richer embrace of uncertainty.I used to think of adulthood as being something like a romantic comedy from the early ’90s. There are ups and downs, maybe an affair or two, some uncomfortable family dinners. There may be disappointments, a tragedy even, but in the end everything works out.This hopeful vision persisted through much of my 30s. Through scores of professional and romantic rejections, through draft upon draft of seemingly unfinishable novels, through years of trying to have a baby with my wife, I held onto my fatalistic optimism. I was always able to convince myself that things had worked out for the best, that everything happened for a reason.Being a novelist — having spent most of my adult life throwing obstacles in front of flawed but ultimately well-meaning characters — I’d like to think I’m pretty good at this kind of retrospective meaning-making, picking out the thread of causality that might explain the larger significance behind a fender bender or a mold infestation in the closet.As I got closer to 40, however, those bumps in the road became bigger and more difficult to explain. What was the reason for my friend’s debilitating chronic illness? Would it really work out for that couple whose infant died of pneumonia? I found myself working harder to explain the unexplainable. And then, four months ago, any remaining sense of order in the universe was destroyed by my wife’s cancer diagnosis.I imagine that there are some people who could find meaning in our situation, people who might say that fate or the universe or God’s plan is more complex than we can ever hope to understand. And that’s great. We all make our own meaning. For me, the optimistic fatalism of my 20s and 30s didn’t fit anymore. And so I threw it out.It’s been liberating in a way, letting go of the idea that there’s a reason for everything. Justifying all that illness and rejection was a lot of work, energy I’d rather spend counting my blessings and making the best of what we’ve been dealt.These past few months — driving my wife to chemotherapy, talking about mortality and whether I might have time to pick up a gallon of milk that afternoon — I’ve thought a lot about a prayer from the Jewish High Holy Days service, “Unetaneh Tokef,” which Leonard Cohen adapted into the song “Who by Fire.” It’s a long poem, full of fear and trembling, the end of which contains a litany of ways you might die: Who shall perish by water and who by fire,  Who by sword and who by wild beast, Who by famine and who by thirst, Who by earthquake and who by plague.When I was younger, I thought the prayer was metaphorical. Now, it feels all too real. But it’s oddly comforting, too, to look mortality in the eye. Because none of us really knows how many days we have left, and we have no idea what those days will bring.I had a dream the other night in which I could see the dark side of the moon. I looked up, and the dark side was as clear as the light. That just about sums it up for me, what turning 40 means. It’s scary to let go of that youthful certainty, but I’d rather embrace the unknown than ignore it. Because no matter how things turn out in the end, I’m going to hug my daughters a little tighter tonight, and when my wife leans her head against my shoulder I’m going to breathe in the smell of her hair a little deeper.Michael David Lukas is the author of the novel “The Last Watchman of Old Cairo.”Advertisement

      By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

FEB. 1, 2019

Last month, the DNA-testing company 23andMe secured Food and Drug Administration approval for a new screening for gene-based health risks. Along with celiac disease, Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, breast cancer and several other medical conditions, the company can now screen clients for two mutations that have been linked to colorectal cancer.But “F.D.A.-approved” does not necessarily mean “clinically useful.” 23andMe relies on much simpler technology than tests that you’d get at your doctor’s office. As a result, the company’s tests cannot tell you much about your actual risk of developing the diseases in question.Here’s how those tests work — and why you should interpret them with caution.
          You can think of your genes as long text documents. The words are your genetic code. Genetic mutations are like typos — imperfections that scientists can spot with some scrutiny.
        
          DNA tests are scientists’ way of proofreading your genes — which they accomplish by comparing them against a gene that’s considered healthy.
        
          Genetic tests search for specific anomalies that have been linked to a higher risk for a given disease. Breast cancer, for example, is sometimes linked to errors in a gene known as BRCA. Some of these errors sharply increase a woman’s risk of developing the disease. But other errors in the BRCA gene  increase the risk of getting breast cancer by only a small amount.
        
          Instead of examining the entire BRCA gene, 23andMe’s breast cancer screen looks at just a handful of places in the gene where mutations are known to appear. That’s like proofreading a document by looking at only a handful of letters.
        
          The particular BRCA mutations that 23andMe tests for are rare: Just two out of 100 women with Ashkenazi Jewish heritage have them, and just one out of 1,000 women in the rest of the population have them.
        
          Meanwhile, there are more than 1,000 other BRCA mutations that contribute to your breast cancer risk. The 23andMe test doesn’t look for any of them.
        That makes it difficult to draw conclusions from the 23andMe BRCA test. Just because you test negative for the few mutations that 23andMe screens for doesn’t mean that you won’t get breast cancer. It doesn’t even mean that you won’t get breast cancer caused by a BRCA mutation.There are more comprehensive BRCA tests on the market. They require a doctor’s prescription, but they are much more useful, because they look at the entire gene. That means they give you a much better picture of the role that this gene might play in your overall cancer risk.World Population11 millionpeople with Ashkenazi Jewish heritage can take 23andMe’s BRCA test7.7 billionpeople do nothave AshkenaziJewish heritage;the test is notuseful for them2 percentreceive apositive result98 percentreceive anegative resultMust confirmresults with aclinical testResults do notrule out riskMust get aclinical testWorld Population11 millionpeople withAshkenazi Jewishheritage can take23andMe’sBRCA test7.7 billionpeople do nothave AshkenaziJewish heritage;the test is notuseful for them2 percentreceive apositive result98 percentreceive anegative resultMust confirmresults with aclinical testResults donot ruleout riskMust get aclinical test23andMe’s other genetic health risk tests have the same shortcomings as its BRCA test: They look for only a handful of errors that may or may not elevate your risk of developing the disease in question. And they don’t factor into their final analysis other information, like family history. (Not everyone with a given mutation will go on to develop the disease.) So the results will not tell you much about your actual health risks.The F.D.A. used to bar 23andMe from selling tests that purport to give health information because such tests were considered a flimsy predictor of health. Their results were also deemed too difficult for consumers to interpret on their own. The agency has since reversed that decision — in part because it has found the company’s tests to be accurate and its disclaimers clear.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MARCH 29, 2019

Nutritional psychiatrists are interested in the interactions between what we eat and how we feel. For someone with mild depression, they might "prescribe" this food, rich in long-chain omega-3 fatty acids:French friesOystersChocolateBeetsTrue or false? Even if you haven't worked out in years, you can gain much of the longevity benefits of exercise if you start to exercise regularly in midlife:TrueFalseOlder fathers are at increased risk of having children with:AutismSchizophreniaProblems related to premature birthAll of the aboveA federal jury ordered the chemical company Monsanto to pay a California man more than $80 million because it failed to warn that the popoular weedkiller Roundup may cause this form of cancer: LymphomaLeukemiaLung cancerBrain tumorTeenagers who lived in urban areas with polluted air were more likely to suffer from these mental health issues, a British study found:DepressionAnxietyPsychotic experiencesEating disordersRockland County, outside New York City, barred unvaccinated children from public places because of an outbreak of:MeaslesMumpsRubellaTyphoidTrue or false? Americans are having fewer heart attacks than they did 20 years ago.AdvertisementSupported byThe F.D.A. made the product review a priority, citing shortages that occurred in the wake of several recalls of drugs that were found to contain potentially cancer-causing chemicals.By Denise GradyThe Food and Drug Administration said on Tuesday that it had approved a new generic version of the widely used blood pressure drug Diovan, or valsartan, which has been in short supply following recalls made because of chemical contamination. The new version is being made by Alkem Laboratories Limited, based in Mumbai, India.“The F.D.A. prioritized the review of this drug application to help relieve the recent shortage of this critical medicine as a result of multiple recalls of generic valsartan products from several manufacturers,” the agency said in a statement. The recalls began in July when the F.D.A. found that some valsartan products contained a potentially cancer-causing chemical, a type of nitrosamine called N-nitrosodimethylamine, or NDMA. European regulators had already made the same discovery. The substance can form during manufacturing if the chemical reactions used to make the drug are not carefully controlled and monitored, the F.D.A. said. Nitrosamines can cause tumors in the liver and other organs in lab animals and are thought to be carcinogenic in humans as well. After several recalls of valsartan and related drugs, patients faced shortages of the popular medicine and in some cases, much higher prices as companies appeared to take advantage of the situation, according to reports. The tainted valsartan came from a Chinese manufacturer, Zhejiang Huahai Pharmaceutical Company. Three companies distributed it in the United States: Major Pharmaceuticals; Teva Pharmaceutical Industries; and Solco Healthcare, which is owned by Huahai Pharmaceutical.Further investigation found the same type of impurities in two other blood pressure drugs in the same class as valsartan: irbesartan and losartan. Two more nitrosamines, nitrosodiethylamine, or NDEA, and N-Nitroso-N-methyl-4-aminobutyric acid, or NMBA, were found. Lists of the affected products are posted on the F.D.A. website. Other manufacturers were involved. The F.D.A. said that the contaminants “are of special concern to global regulators because, unlike most impurities in drugs, they have the potential to cause harm at very low levels.” The tainted drugs belong to a class called angiotensin II receptor blockers, or ARBs. They can treat heart failure as well as high blood pressure. The F.D.A. said that not all lots of valsartan, irbesartan and losartan were affected and not all were being recalled. The agency said consumers should check the labels on their prescription bottles and consult the F.D.A. website for lists of the recalled products, and even if theirs is on the list, should keep taking their medicines until they can get replacements. A statement on the F.D.A. website explained the degree of risk: “Our scientists estimate that if 8,000 people took the highest daily valsartan dose (320 mg) that contained NDMA, for four years (the amount of time we believed the affected products had been on the U.S. market), there may be one additional case of cancer beyond the average cancer rate among Americans. Most patients who were exposed to the impurity through the use of affected valsartan received less exposure than in the scenario described above.”The F.D.A. said it was continuing to evaluate other drugs in that class “to ensure they are free of impurities.”AdvertisementSupported byIn a health system riddled with inequity, we risk making dangerous biases automated and invisible.By Dhruv KhullarDr. Khullar is an assistant professor of health care policy and research.Artificial intelligence is beginning to meet (and sometimes exceed) assessments by doctors in various clinical situations. A.I. can now diagnose skin cancer like dermatologists, seizures like neurologists, and diabetic retinopathy like ophthalmologists. Algorithms are being developed to predict which patients will get diarrhea or end up in the ICU, and the FDA recently approved the first machine learning algorithm to measure how much blood flows through the heart — a tedious, time-consuming calculation traditionally done by cardiologists. It’s enough to make doctors like myself wonder why we spent a decade in medical training learning the art of diagnosis and treatment. There are many questions about whether A.I. actually works in medicine, and where it works: can it pick up pneumonia, detect cancer, predict death? But those questions focus on the technical, not the ethical. And in a health system riddled with inequity, we have to ask: Could the use of A.I. in medicine worsen health disparities? There are at least three reasons to believe it might.The first is a training problem. A.I. must learn to diagnose disease on large data sets, and if that data doesn’t include enough patients from a particular background, it won’t be as reliable for them. Evidence from other fields suggests this isn’t just a theoretical concern. A recent study found that some facial recognition programs incorrectly classify less than 1 percent of light-skinned men but more than one-third of dark-skinned women. What happens when we rely on such algorithms to diagnose melanoma on light versus dark skin?Medicine has long struggled to include enough women and minorities in research, despite knowing they have different risk factors for and manifestations of disease. Many genetic studies suffer from a dearth of black patients, leading to erroneous conclusions. Women often experience different symptoms when having a heart attack, causing delays in treatment. Perhaps the most widely used cardiovascular risk score, developed using data from mostly white patients, can be less precise for minorities.Will using A.I. to tell us who might have a stroke, or which patients will benefit a clinical trial, codify these concerns into algorithms that prove less effective for underrepresented groups?Second, because A.I. is trained on real-world data, it risks incorporating, entrenching and perpetuating the economic and social biases that contribute to health disparities in the first place. Again, evidence from other fields is instructive. A.I. programs used to help judges predict which criminals are most likely to reoffend have shown troubling racial biases, as have those designed to help child protective services decide which calls require further investigation.In medicine, unchecked A.I. could create self-fulfilling prophesies that confirm our pre-existing biases, especially when used for conditions with complex trade-offs and high degrees of uncertainty. If, for example, poorer patients do worse after organ transplantation or after receiving chemotherapy for end-stage cancer, machine learning algorithms may conclude such patients are less likely to benefit from further treatment — and recommend against it.Finally, even ostensibly fair, neutral A.I. has the potential to worsen disparities if its implementation has disproportionate effects for certain groups. Consider a program that helps doctors decide whether a patient should go home or to a rehab facility after knee surgery. It’s a decision imbued with uncertainty but has real consequences: Evidence suggests discharge to an institution is associated with higher costs and higher risk of readmission. If an algorithm incorporates residence in a low-income neighborhood as a marker for poor social support, it may recommend minority patients go to nursing facilities instead of receive home-based physical therapy. Worse yet, a program designed to maximize efficiency or lower medical costs might discourage operating on those patients altogether.To some extent, all these problems already exist in medicine. American health care has always struggled with income- and race-based inequities rooted in various forms of bias. The risk with A.I. is that these biases become automated and invisible — that we begin to accept the wisdom of machines over the wisdom of our own clinical and moral intuition. Many A.I. programs are black boxes: We don’t know exactly what’s going on inside and why they produce the output they do. But we may increasingly be expected to honor their recommendations. In my practice, I’ve often seen how any tool can quickly become a crutch — an excuse to outsource decision making to someone or something else. Medical students struggling to interpret an EKG inevitably peek at the computer-generated output at the top of the sheet. I myself am often swayed by the report provided alongside a chest X-ray or CT scan. As automation becomes pervasive, will we catch that spell-check autocorrected “they’re” to “there” when we meant “their”?Still, A.I. holds tremendous potential to improve medicine. It may well make care more efficient, more accurate and — if properly deployed — more equitable. But realizing this promise requires being aware of the potential for bias and guarding against it. It means regularly monitoring both the output of algorithms and the downstream consequences. In some cases, this will necessitate counter-bias algorithms that hunt for and correct subtle, systematic discrimination.But most fundamentally, it means recognizing that humans, not machines, are still responsible for caring for patients. It is our duty to ensure that we’re using AI as another tool at our disposal — not the other way around.AdvertisementSupported byTiesWhen my daughter was hospitalized for cancer treatment, I began collecting leftover condiments and medical supplies in an effort to control something in our uncontrollable world. By Stacy S. KimWhen my daughter got cancer, I began hoarding ketchup packets and digital thermometers.Gillian was 11 when we learned the lingering knee pain was osteosarcoma in her right femur. The treatment protocol for this rare bone disease was a nine-month course of aggressive chemotherapy. Each of the almost-weekly infusions required at least a three-night hospital stay.My husband, Kyle, and I took turns sleeping by her side. Her 13-year-old sister, Allison, gave up time with friends to have dinner with her. Sharing a room with another patient’s family meant twice as many late-night awakenings and no privacy.Gillian was the model patient. She endured painful blisters on her feet, and when she had to throw up she made sure to use a bin so nurses wouldn’t have to change her sheets. She entertained herself with books, origami paper and sketchpads. This wasn’t surprising. Even as a toddler, she had designed independent projects so I could build my life coaching practice. Once while I worked, she manufactured a pair of spectacles from Kleenex and water.But, when I crawled into her hospital bed to snuggle and kiss her good night, she regularly sobbed quietly in my arms. As much as I tried, I couldn’t stop my tears from trickling down my cheeks onto her soft bald head.I had been raised not to complain, but to “always give thanks” and cherish the little we had. My parents were Korean immigrants, a Presbyterian minister and a teacher. If I couldn’t finish dinner, my father would tap his chopsticks against the edge of the table to a slow timed beat.“Every few seconds, a child dies of hunger,” he would say.Feeling guilty, I cleaned my plate.Perhaps this is why I had taken up an obsession with hospital waste. For each overnight stay, we received two brand-new digital thermometers, a stethoscope, a pulse-ox finger band and a blood pressure arm band. Watching the maintenance staff clean half of the room after each of Gillian’s roommates was discharged, I saw these and more go into the garbage — even new items with packaging untouched.I asked one of the head nurses, “Why not reuse unopened items?”“Once supplies leave the ‘clean room’ they can’t go back.”When Gillian was too nauseated to touch any food, I tried to stop the kitchen aide from tossing items on her tray. I suggested she return the sealed milk, yogurt and Jell-O.“I can’t. I’ll get into trouble!”The wastefulness irked me. Ignoring advice I often gave my clients — to go easy on oneself in times of stress — I took up the fight to conserve. I started taking things home.As soon as I arrived at the hospital, I swapped the pair of new thermometers with saved used ones. When my shift was over, I took home cartons of milk and packets of condiments.I was embarrassed that I was becoming my parents. They couldn’t waste any scraps because of haunting memories of hunger during the Korean War. To hide the evidence, I squeezed out 18 packets of Italian dressing into a jar. I made rice pudding with the milk. I gave away hand sanitizer. I hid grape jelly packets in a brown bag in the back corner of the crisper drawer.I knew that what I was doing was probably a reaction to stress, but was I turning into a hoarder? I later asked Dr. Carolyn Rodriguez, the director of the Stanford Hoarding Disorders Research Program. She said, “Not all collecting behavior is a hoarding disorder.” While she couldn’t diagnose me over the phone, she explained that those suffering from the psychiatric condition usually have “difficulty parting with possessions and clutter that impairs living in their homes.”Meanwhile, friends complimented me on how well we were managing. But I knew otherwise, even though the accumulation was not in plain view. I might not have been doing the kind of hoarding that creates a fire hazard, but it clearly wasn’t healthy.Then one night near the end of Gillian’s treatment, my daughters broke into their most explosive fight.“Do you know how hard it is to be YOUR sister?” Allison asked. “No one cares about me. People only talk to me to ask about you!”“At least you can go to school,” retorted Gillian. “You don’t have to worry about sepsis.”“Shh, c’mon girls. Settle down. You’re disturbing our neighbors,” I pleaded, conscious of how sound traveled in our apartment building.Growing up, my brother and I had never had heated arguments in front of our parents. As “Pastor’s Kids,” we had to be exemplary. My dad enforced this with his weekly opportunity to shame us for our misdemeanors in his sermons.My kids ignored me. Their rage transformed them into creatures I couldn’t recognize. Gillian screamed curse words I didn’t know she knew. Allison stood over her frail sister to intimidate her. This stance reminded me of the one she had taken years ago when she chased down a boy on the ice rink until he fell. Hovering over him, she berated him for calling Gillian a “weirdo.”“I’m sick of people bossing me around, ‘Take care of your sister,’ ‘Be good to your Mom and Dad!’ They don’t see how I go to that smelly hospital carrying all your heavy books,” said Allison.“It’s a good thing you don’t have cancer. You’d never survive,” Gillian said.I begged them to stop, looking to Kyle for help. That’s when I saw how calm he was. Having lost his father at 11, he was raised by his gentle Japanese-American mother. I could see her peaceful face as he simply listened to our daughters’ fight.From his reaction, I realized that our girls were not attacking each other. They were taking turns expressing their pain, jealousy and anxiety. He was creating a safe place to air their grievances.I saw my powerlessness in new light. Even if I could shut down the fight, I couldn’t stop how they felt. I had no choice but to allow the medical machine to aggressively treat Gillian. The medicines intended to heal were so toxic that nurses wore protective gloves to administer them. They made our baby sick, which hurt us to watch.Unable to save my family from the horrors of cancer, I had been rescuing Band-Aids and apple sauce from the trash. But instead of hoarding as an attempt to exert some control, I needed to experience my feelings.Three months after the chemotherapy ended, Gillian got her first scan. When her oncologist informed us it was clean, I cried with relief. I couldn’t stop so the doctor held me. In the cab home, I began to sob again. This time, Gillian took my hand.When we got home, I retrieved 13 untouched bottles of leftover medicine stowed away in my closet. Mixing the pills into coffee grounds, I buried them deep in the trash. I peeled off every label bearing Gillian’s name and tossed the plastic containers into the recycling bin.AdvertisementSupported byThe Ethicist By Kwame Anthony AppiahA friend was recently diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a cancer of a type of white blood cell called plasma cells. There is often significant pain associated with this condition, and my friend has been treated with high doses of different opioid combinations, in addition to chemotherapy. My friend lives in Colorado, where he has easy access to medical marijuana, and he asked his oncologist if he could add this to his regimen in hopes of decreasing his dependence on opioids. The oncologist told him that he would refuse to treat my friend if he took any form of cannabis. Given his insurance coverage, my friend does not have the option of changing physicians.The National Cancer Institute states that cannabis may benefit patients suffering from cancer-related side effects. Cannabis is routinely recommended for cancer patients to improve appetite, decrease nausea and alleviate pain. The medical literature is fairly consistent on the efficacy and minimal side effects of cannabis, which has specifically been shown to help patients decrease opioid dependence. There are even some reports that cannabis may be a valuable adjunct to chemotherapy in cancer patients. Is it ethical for the physician to deny treatment based on my friend’s taking cannabis? Is it ethical for my friend not to inform his oncologist if he chooses to use cannabis? D.A. Kinderlehrer, M.D.Let me start with your question about the right of doctors to refuse service. Doctors in the United States can be legally required to treat patients in medical emergencies. Otherwise, though, doctors can mostly refuse service — as long as it’s consistent with whatever agreements they’ve made with their health care organizations or provider networks and isn’t in violation of anti-discrimination laws. There are shortages of doctors in many places, so clinicians — especially the ones with the best reputations — often truthfully say they simply won’t take new patients on board.While doctors don’t have a general obligation to take patients, they do have obligations to patients they have taken. Yes, doctors sometimes “fire” patients they find unpleasant, overly demanding or abusive. But the American Medical Association rightly calls for physicians to ensure “continuity of care” in these cases — which involves making sure that the patient can secure another physician. You say that your friend has access to only this one oncologist. That’s disturbing, if true. In a decent medical system, the ability to switch doctors is a central element in respecting patient autonomy. A situation in which a doctor can fire a patient but not the other way around strikes me as insupportable.As a general rule, what’s more, noncompliance is a poor justification for terminating care. If this oncologist has medical reasons for objecting to your friend’s use of cannabis — if he has specific concerns about drug interactions, say — he should explain them. (I’m assuming your friend isn’t enrolled in an experimental protocol.) If it’s just that he disapproves of legal marijuana use, that’s an abuse of the doctor-patient relationship. Patients aren’t obliged to help their doctors enforce a tyrannical demand, so there would be no moral reason your friend should inform him of his cannabis use. Indeed, your friend might want to consider filing a complaint against the oncologist for making this threat.As a medical matter, though, it’s not a great idea to have a doctor who doesn’t know what drugs you’re taking. Ideally, your friend would enlist the services of a specialist in pain management or palliative care who could work with his oncologist. Treating pain involves subjective considerations that make it very different from giving chemotherapy, which is why people skilled at the second sometimes falter at the first. And if your friend can’t come to terms with this oncologist, the oncologist is ethically required to find him another.I have a friend in a long-term relationship who has always wanted kids but has been putting off getting married to her boyfriend and starting a family. I think it’s because she’s ambivalent about him. I’m worried that she is going to lose her fertility window if she doesn’t leave him soon and find a better match. I don’t want to say anything because I don’t want to add to her anxiety, but I don’t want to see her miss her chance and later regret it. Is it more ethical to share my concern or to stay quiet?Name WithheldEverything you say about your friend’s situation is, if true, known to her. What you want her to do is to draw what you think is the obvious conclusion: that she needs to break up with her partner, find a new one and settle down to motherhood. Perhaps you think that forcing her to face reality will get her to snap out of it and take some new course of action.If you had reason to be confident that your promptings would guide her to a life as a happily married mother, it would certainly be ethical to proceed. You’d be offering a gift of friendship. But I suspect you don’t have reason to be confident about this. And you’ve identified the downsides: adding to her anxiety, sparking her resentment. It is an important maxim, widely ignored, that intervention is a good idea only if it is likely to make things better. Many people think that a mediocre partner is better than no partner at all. And depending on their character and temperament, they may be right.At the gym, I often see a woman who appears to be severely underweight; I can’t help thinking that she may have an eating disorder. I’m not a medical professional, I don’t know her, I don’t work at the gym and I don’t have any information that isn’t plainly visible. I don’t want to intrude on her privacy (for all I know, this woman may have some other underlying medical condition and already be receiving medical care for it), but at the same time, it’s difficult for me to see someone looking so painfully thin. For what it’s worth, I’ve seen this woman at the gym for a year or more, which suggests that her weight is relatively stable, albeit very low. What is the most ethical course of action? And how would it be most helpful to engage with this woman if ethics demand that I can’t simply be a bystander?Name WithheldYou know almost nothing about this woman and have no relationship with her. Unless she’s completely friendless, there’s almost certainly someone who is better placed than you to judge whether she’s ill and, if so, to help her deal with it. Maybe that has already happened.You don’t have very good reason, in short, to involve yourself here. And bear in mind that one feature of eating disorders is a preoccupation with how you look to others; being addressed by a stranger in a gym who is worried by your appearance is likely to exacerbate that problem. Shame is part of the psychic burden of many eating disorders (she may be struggling to recover from it), but so is a profound body dysmorphia. Hearing that she’s too thin may have the opposite effect than what you intend, by making her feel pleased that her behavior has succeeded in making her look the way she wants to look. As I cautioned in my previous answer, we should intervene only when we’re likely to make things better.I recently started a new job. During the application process, I was asked if I would be applying to graduate school in the near future, as their intention was to have the new hire stay on for two to three years. At the time, I was not intending on applying to graduate school, but this has since changed. Must I inform my new employers of my change in plans? There is a chance I may not be accepted into a program or receive enough funding to attend. I also took on personal risk by moving to the other side of the country when accepting the offer. Name WithheldAdvertisementSupported byVideos by Jonah M. KesselHEFEI, China — The Chinese government claims that it provides medical coverage for nearly all of its citizens. But the reality is that the country’s health care system is broken.Attacks by frustrated patients against doctors are common. Some patients who lack access to lifesaving drugs have resorted to making them at home. Long lines filled with people desperate for treatment wrap around hospitals and administrators have been accused of corruption.A stat from the World Health Organization captures just how broken the system is:: There is one general practitioner for every 6,666 people, compared with the international standard of one for every 1,500 to 2,000 people.The crisis is felt most acutely by those living in rural areas. This includes children with serious diseases who move to cities with their families for therapies unavailable in their regions.As we learned from interviews with families struggling to keep their children alive, they’re sometimes referred to as “cancer refugees.” It helps explain why illness is the leading cause of poverty in China.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MARCH 8, 2019

For only the second time, a patient appears to have been cured of this infection:RabiesH.I.V. EbolaMarburg virusThis week the Food and Drug Administration approved a form of the popular party drug ketamine for treatment-resistant depression; the drug is administered via:Intravenous injectionIntramuscular injectionNasal sprayPillPeople who tended to eat a Mediterranean-style diet, rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains, in their 20s scored higher on these tests in their 50s:EyesightHearingMental sharpnessAll of the aboveAlex Trebek, the host of "Jeopardy!," was diagnosed with advanced pancreatic cancer. Which statement about pancreatic cancer is not true?Pancreatic cancer accounts for only about 3 percent of all cancers but causes 7 percent of all cancer deaths. There are no effective screening tests to detect the cancer early.Pancreatic cancer typically causes no symptoms until the cancer is advanced.The cancer can be surgically removed only in about half of all patients.Deaths in the United States reached a record high for all of the following causes except:AlcoholDrugsSuicideTraffic accidentsExposure to secondhand smoke is tied to an increased risk of this illness:Lung cancerCardiovascular diseaseKidney diseaseAll of the aboveThe average age of menopause is:4951AdvertisementSupported byBy Denise GradyCenters that provide mammograms to screen for breast cancer will have to tell women whether they have dense breast tissue, which can increase the risk of cancer and mask tumors,  the Food and Drug Administration announced in a proposed rule on Wednesday.Dense tissue can hide cancer from X-rays, making mammography less reliable. Women with dense tissue are often advised to have other screening tests in addition to mammograms, such as ultrasound or M.R.I. scans.More than half of women over 40 in the United States have dense breasts, the agency said in a statement.Dense breasts have a high proportion of glandular or connective tissue, which blocks X-rays. Breasts that are not dense have more fat, which X-rays penetrate easily. The only way to detect dense tissue is with a mammogram; it cannot be felt.Dense tissue makes cancer harder to find on mammograms because the tissue and tumors both show up as white and blend together. Fat looks black, so tumors stand out more in fatty breasts.About three dozen states already require that women be given information about breast density. The new F.D.A. rules propose specific language that would be used nationwide to explain breast density, note that some women may need more imaging tests and recommend that patients talk to their doctors about their results.The F.D.A. language would be the minimum required, but states would be free to require more information, Dr. Jeff Shuren, director of the agency’s Center for Devices and Radiological Health, said in a news briefing.Some in the medical profession have objected to this type of notification, arguing that not all women with dense tissue have the same increased risk of breast cancer, and that reporting the condition could frighten women and lead to a flood of unnecessary screening tests and biopsies. Doctors have also said that many of the state-mandated letters were too hard for patients to understand.The F.D.A. commissioner, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, who will be leaving the agency on April 5, said in an interview that the new proposal had been high on the list of actions he hoped to take before departing. He acknowledged that some physicians opposed notifying women about breast density, but he said women had a right to receive the information and decide what to do about it.The state laws mandating that women be told about breast density resulted from the tireless campaign of one woman with breast cancer, Nancy Cappello, a special-education teacher and administrator in Connecticut.In 2003, just six weeks after being told her mammogram was normal, she learned that she had an advanced breast cancer. When she asked how the mammogram could have missed her large tumor, her doctor told her that she had dense breast tissue. She had never been told that.She needed a mastectomy, chemotherapy and radiation — a difficult course of treatment that she believed she might have avoided had she only been told about her tissue density so that she could have had additional tests and found the cancer earlier.Dr. Cappello and her husband took their concerns to legislators, and in 2009 Connecticut became the first state to require that breast density be reported to women.Dr. Cappello died in November at 66, from complications of a rare blood cancer caused by the chemotherapy and radiation she had received for breast cancer.Wednesday’s F.D.A. announcement included other proposed changes to mammography regulations, including a provision to allow the agency to notify women and their doctors if a mammogram center failed to meet quality standards and the patient’s test should be re-evaluated or done over at another facility. Other changes tightened rules that govern record-keeping and the equipment used in mammography.These rules are the first changes proposed in 20 years to the F.D.A.’s regulations on mammography. They will not take effect immediately. They are open for public comment for 90 days and could be modified before becoming final.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Like another character named Don, President Donald Trump is tilting at windmills.The president disparaged wind farms this week while spinning his arm like a turbine and making an unpleasant whirring sound.TRUMP: "If you have a windmill anywhere near your house, congratulations. Your house just went down 75% of value. And they say the noise causes cancer." — remarks at Republican fundraising dinner Tuesday.THE FACTS: The sound from wind farms has not been proved to cause cancer.Trump has had it out for wind power since turbines were proposed off the coast of Scotland within sight of his golf resort near Aberdeen . He unsuccessfully fought the project. He has ascribed a variety of evils to wind power over the years, usually with scant evidence, while praising coal, a well-documented cause of health problems."The American Cancer Society is unaware of any credible evidence linking the noise from windmills to cancer," the organization said after Trump's latest remarks.While some recesses of the internet have long tried to sound alarms about "wind turbine syndrome," several studies have found no evidence of serious health issues.Trump actually misidentified his target. Wind turbines produce energy. Windmills mill grain and flummox Don Quixote .___Associated Press writer Jill Colvin contributed to this report.AdvertisementSupported byThe company’s stock dipped on Thursday after a California jury found in favor of a woman who claimed that asbestos in the company’s talc-based powders caused her cancer.By Tiffany HsuJohnson & Johnson’s shares dipped on Thursday after a jury in California ordered the company to pay more than $29 million to a woman who claimed that asbestos in its talc-based powder products had caused her cancer.In rendering its verdict in Alameda County Superior Court on Wednesday, the jury found that Johnson & Johnson knew about the potential risks that its baby powder was contaminated, but failed to warn the woman, Teresa Leavitt. Ms. Leavitt, a resident of San Leandro, received a diagnosis of mesothelioma, a cancer of the lining of internal organs that is associated with asbestos, in August 2017. Her lawyer, Joseph D. Satterley, said she had used Johnson & Johnson talc products for more than 30 years. The jury awarded Ms. Leavitt $22 million for her pain and suffering, $5 million to compensate her family members, nearly $1.3 million for her medical costs and $1.2 million for her lost wages, Mr. Satterley said. Johnson & Johnson said in a statement that it was disappointed with the verdict, citing “serious procedural and evidentiary errors in the proceeding,” and that it planned to appeal. As in past cases, which the company has fought with mixed success, it said decades of testing showed that its baby powder did not contain asbestos or cause cancer. Its shares fell 1 percent in trading on Thursday.More than 13,000 plaintiffs have sued Johnson & Johnson over what they say are cancers caused by its talc products. The New York Times reported last year that the company had spent decades trying to keep negative information about the potential risk of asbestos contamination from reaching the public.Ms. Leavitt’s complaint claims that Johnson & Johnson has, since the early 1900s, “possessed medical and scientific data that raised concerns regarding the presence of asbestos in talcum powder and that demonstrated the existence of health hazards to those exposed to asbestos-containing talcum powder products.”Johnson & Johnson said in a regulatory filing last month that it had received subpoenas from the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission for more details about its talc products.In July, a jury in Missouri awarded $4.69 billion to 22 women who claimed that asbestos in Johnson & Johnson products, including its signature baby powder, caused them to develop ovarian cancer. In December, the company lost a motion to reverse the verdict. The company’s appeal is pending. Talc is used in more than 2,000 products, including many beauty and personal-care products, according to government data. The Food and Drug Administration warned this month that it had found asbestos in cosmetics sold by Claire’s, a retailer geared toward teenagers. The company said it had stopped selling all talc-based products, including those cited by the agency, and planned to destroy its existing inventory. It also said it had stopped making talc-based cosmetics last year.AdvertisementSupported byDietary supplements do not help you live longer, and in large quantities may be harmful.By Nicholas BakalarTaking dietary supplements will not extend life, researchers report, and taken in large quantities may even be harmful.In a study in the Annals of Internal Medicine, scientists gathered dietary information in repeated in-person interviews with almost 31,000 men and women 20 and older. They also collected data on supplements used over the previous 30 days, including type, dosage and frequency of use. Slightly more than half the participants took supplements, and about a third took multivitamins.Over six years, there were 3,613 deaths, including 945 from cardiovascular disease and 805 from cancer. Over all, after adjustment for other health and behavioral characteristics, they found that using any dietary supplements had no effect on mortality. Adequate intakes of vitamins A and K, magnesium, zinc and copper were associated with reductions in all-cause mortality, but only when the substances came from food, not supplements.AdvertisementSupported byBy Brad PlumerWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.WASHINGTON — It’s no secret that President Trump really, really dislikes wind power. He’s been vocal on the subject for years, ever since a battle with Scottish officials over a plan to build what he called a “really ugly wind farm” within sight of his golf resort in Aberdeen.More recently, in rallies and speeches, Mr. Trump has stepped up his attacks on wind turbines, suggesting that their noise can cause cancer (there’s absolutely no evidence of this) and predicting power failures when the wind stops blowing (also not true). Here’s a closer look at a few of his recent comments.During a sometimes rambling digression about wind turbines at the National Republican Congressional Committee's annual spring dinner in Washington on Tuesday, Mr. Trump said: “They say the noise causes cancer.”The suggestion that turbine noises cause cancer is completely unfounded. “The American Cancer Society is unaware of any credible evidence linking the noise from windmills to cancer,” a spokeswoman for the group said in an email.Separately, some researchers have been investigating claims that noise from wind turbines might cause other health problems like nausea, headaches or sleeplessness. So far, experts haven’t found strong evidence of links to those conditions, although that debate is likely to persist. When compared to the research around coal power, an energy source that Mr. Trump has long championed, the difference is stark. There is ample evidence linking the particulate pollution from coal plants to heart disease, respiratory problems, and lung cancer. When Mr. Trump moved to relax restrictions on coal plant pollution last year, his own Environmental Protection Agency estimated that the change could lead to as many as 1,400 additional premature deaths each year by 2030.There’s been a major shift in how America makes electricity over the past two decades. Each state has its own story.At the same dinner, Mr. Trump made this claim: “If you have a windmill anywhere near your house, congratulations, your house just went down 75 percent in value.” There have been a few smaller studies suggesting that wind-farm development may have depressed property values in some areas. But the balance of evidence suggests that this is uncommon. Much larger studies, including an analysis of more than 50,000 home sales across nine states conducted by Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in 2013, have found no evidence that home values are generally affected by nearby wind projects. In any case, Mr. Trump’s golf course in Scotland does not appear to have suffered financially after the construction of the wind farm nearby.At a rally in Ohio last month, Mr. Trump suggested that wind power was too unreliable to be useful. “Let’s put up some windmills,” he said. “When the wind doesn’t blow, just turn off the television darling, please. There’s no wind. Please turn off the television quickly!”It’s true that wind turbines generate electricity only when the wind is blowing. But that doesn’t mean the power in your home will suddenly go out when the wind dies down.Across the United States, regional grid operators typically rely on a diverse array of power sources throughout the day so that the lights stay on. During sunny hours, they can draw electricity from solar panels. When it’s windy, they can make use of power from wind farms. If power from those renewable sources starts to drop, operators can use power from natural gas turbines or hydroelectric dams to fill in the gaps.So far, America’s grid operators have been very good at this balancing act, even as coal has declined and renewables have surged in popularity. Last year, wind power accounted for nearly one-fifth of the electricity generated in the Texas grid, and people were still able to watch TV there. When power failures around the country do occur, it’s almost always because of severe weather knocking out transmission lines, not because wind turbines stopped spinning.However, it’s also fair to say that if wind and solar power continue to expand — the two sources produced 8.2 percent of the nation’s electricity last year and are growing rapidly — grid operators could face new challenges in juggling those intermittent sources.Possible solutions for that might include adding batteries or other energy storage to balance supply and demand, or improving weather forecasts so that operators can better predict the output of wind farms. Or building more transmission lines to get access to wind power from distant regions, on the principle that the wind is usually blowing somewhere in the country.Experts have concluded that it’s technically possible for the United States to manage a lot more wind and solar power than it uses today. For instance, a 2016 modeling study published in Nature Climate Change found that, using existing technology, the country could get 55 percent of its electricity from wind and solar if it built a network of high-voltage transmission lines. That study analyzed reams of historical weather data and concluded that the lights would stay on even with daily and seasonal fluctuations in the wind. To be sure, there are plenty of legitimate debates about what the power grid of the future should look like and how big a role renewable energy ought to play in that mix. But the fact that the wind can come and go is hardly a slam-dunk argument against using wind power.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWARNER ROBINS, Ga. — A former police officer of Warner Robins, Georgia, is accused of using his position to steal narcotic painkillers from the department's evidence room after he was diagnosed with cancer.The Telegraph of Macon reports 55-year-old Pratt D. Martin was indicted Tuesday on charges including possession of oxycodone.The indictment says Martin stole the painkillers between February 2016 and January 2017. Martin was diagnosed with cancer in 2015 and went on medical leave in early 2017. He later left the department.Warner Robins police said Wednesday that evidence discrepancies were initially detected internally, leading to an outside audit.Acting Police Chief John Wagner says the audit found additional painkiller discrepancies, which led to an investigation by the state Bureau of Investigation.The newspaper says Martin wasn't immediately reached for comment.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHUDDERSFIELD, England — Jamie Vardy scored twice as Leicester beat Huddersfield 4-1 on Saturday to make it four successive wins in the Premier League.Youri Tielemans and James Maddison also scored for Brendan Rodgers' side.Aaron Mooy scored the only goal for already relegated Huddersfield on the day he met an American girl who gained inspiration from the midfielder's shaven head during her cancer treatment.Tielemans curled in the opener from 20 yards in the 24th minute before Vardy latched onto Ricardo Pereira's pass and produced a fine finish three minutes into the second half.Mooy immediately gave Huddersfield hope from the penalty spot following Caglar Soyuncu's challenge on Karlan Ahearne-Grant.But Maddison sealed the game with a free-kick in the 79th and Vardy then converted in the 84th from the spot after being hauled down by Terence Kongolo.Leicester climbed to seventh in the league.AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg returned to the Supreme Court on Friday to participate in a private conference at which the justices considered adding cases to the court’s docket, a court spokeswoman said. It was Justice Ginsburg’s first appearance at the court since undergoing cancer surgery in December.Among the cases under consideration at Friday’s conference were ones on whether the Trump administration may add a question on citizenship to the census and whether a federal law barring employment discrimination applies to gay men and lesbians.Justice Ginsburg, 85, missed two weeks of arguments in January but participated in the cases by reading briefs and transcripts. She is expected to be on the bench on Tuesday when the court returns from its four-week midwinter break.Justice Ginsburg has suffered a number of health setbacks over the years but had never before missed an argument in her 25 years on the court.Surgeons removed two malignant nodules from Justice Ginsburg’s left lung on Dec. 21. The court has said that the surgery was successful and that she is cancer free.“Post-surgery evaluation indicates no evidence of remaining disease, and no further treatment is required,” Kathleen Arberg, a court spokeswoman, said in January.Doctors found the nodules during tests following a fall in November in which Justice Ginsburg fractured her ribs. She had broken her ribs once before, in 2012. In 2014, she underwent a heart procedure.Justice Ginsburg has been treated for cancer twice before, and attributed her survival partly to the medical care she received at the National Institutes of Health.“Ever since my colorectal cancer in 1999, I have been followed by the N.I.H.,” she said in the 2013 interview. “That was very lucky for me because they detected my pancreatic cancer at a very early stage” in 2009.She did not miss any arguments after the earlier procedures. She was also on the bench in 2010 on the day after the death of her husband, Martin D. Ginsburg.Last week, Justice Ginsburg made her first public appearance since her recent surgery at an evening of music celebrating her life. But she skipped President Trump’s State of the Union address the following night.Justice Ginsburg is the senior member of the court’s four-member liberal wing. Mr. Trump has appointed two new members to the Supreme Court, Justices Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh, moving it considerably to the right.Should he name Justice Ginsburg’s replacement, Republican appointees would outnumber Democratic ones six to three.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.AdvertisementSupported byInside the ListBy Tina JordanShe didn’t know it then, but Julie Yip-Williams began her memoir, “The Unwinding of the Miracle” — which enters the list at No. 8 — in July 2013. That’s when the 37-year-old mother of two, in the E.R. with stomach pains and nausea, learned she had Stage 4 colon cancer.The next month, she started a blog, partly as a record for her daughters, Mia and Belle (“especially if this cancer-fighting journey doesn’t end in the way we all hope it ends”), and partly, she wrote, “to carve out my own little space out there to express my sadness, anger, joy, hope, despair and a slew of other emotions that come with living with cancer.”Mark Warren, her editor at Random House, says, “Julie was my friend for a couple of years before the prospect of a book even came up. It was in the last year of her life, when her health was turning toward its end, and she was resolving all she could resolve, that we began to contemplate whether the blog could be a book.” Yip-Williams had been searching for a book that would help her prepare to die, but she hadn’t found one. “She was unnerved by the level of denial that she found in the culture at large,” Warren recalls.Warren introduced her to David Granger, who became her literary agent in August 2017. “I asked her to make me a list of her 15 favorite blog posts and then, while I was waiting for that, I dove in,” Granger says. “The first one I remember reading was what became Chapter 2 of the book, a letter to Mia and Belle. I was weeping by the end of the first paragraph, where she writes that she’s making a video so everyone knows what kind of food the dog, Chipper, eats.”The next month, Granger sold the project to Random House, which Yip-Williams proudly announced in her final blog post. “Cancer is completing my life, making it whole,” she wrote. “This blog will … be transformed into the memoir I always dreamed of publishing, except maybe not the cancer part, but I will take it anyway.”[ Read our review of “The Unwinding of the Miracle.” ]Warren says that “what began as a chronicle of early and imminent death became so much more — she would come to think of it as an exhortation to the living, to live most vividly by facing hard truths consciously. Yes, ‘The Unwinding of the Miracle’ is certainly a book about how to die, but even more than that, it’s a book about how to live. Her honesty and humanity will strip the bark right off you. It will wake you right up.”Julie Yip-Williams died on March 19, 2018.Follow Tina Jordan on Twitter: @TinaJordanNYTFollow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementSupported byWord of the DayBy The Learning NetworkNote: Our Sixth Annual 15-Second Vocabulary Video Challenge is underway. It will run until Feb. 18.: a disposition to be friendly and approachable (easy to talk to)_________The word geniality has appeared in five articles on The New York Times website in the past year, including on July 17 in the obituary “Dr. Alan S. Rabson, Influential Cancer Researcher, Is Dead at 92” by Gina Kolata:In addition to his scientific and administrative achievements, colleagues say, what made Dr. Rabson stand out were his kindness, his empathy, his geniality and his willingness to help anyone with a cancer diagnosis who was seeking advice or a referral to an oncologist.“You could not be in his presence without smiling,” said Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, of which the National Cancer Institute is part.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuThe Justice Department and Securities and Exchange Commission are investigating Johnson & Johnson over concerns about possible asbestos contamination of its popular baby powder and other talc-based products, the company said Wednesday.In a securities filing, Johnson & Johnson said it was “cooperating with these government inquiries and will be producing documents in response” to subpoenas it had received. In a separate statement, the company said that “the inquiries are related to news reports” about the welter of lawsuits it faces from consumers who claim its talc products caused cancers.The New York Times and Reuters reported in December on internal documents that showed decades of communications within the company about the risk of asbestos in its talc products even as Johnson & Johnson fought to keep negative information out of the public eye.In the days after the reports were published, the company’s stock sank more than 12 percent. It had not fully regained the losses as of Wednesday.Johnson & Johnson, which faces around 13,000 lawsuits in which its body powders are blamed for causing ovarian cancer or mesothelioma, has stood by the safety of its products. It said on Wednesday that “decades of independent tests by regulators and the world’s leading labs prove Johnson & Johnson’s baby powder is safe and asbestos-free, and does not cause cancer.”Some of the talc suits have gone to trial. Johnson & Johnson, which is based in New Brunswick, N.J., has prevailed in some cases and succeeded in overturning verdicts in others. It has appealed several judgments, including one from July in which a jury awarded $4.7 billion to 22 ovarian cancer patients and their relatives.Last week, Imerys Talc America, a major supplier of talc used by Johnson & Johnson and a defendant in some of the lawsuits, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. The company said that although the suits challenging talc’s safety were “entirely without merit,” it did not want to “litigate these claims in perpetuity and incur millions of dollars in projected legal costs to defend these cases.”Johnson & Johnson also noted in its regulatory filing that Senator Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, had asked for information about the extent of the company’s knowledge about potential asbestos in its talc products.The Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department declined to comment. The subpoenas were first reported by The Wall Street Journal.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCOLOGNE, Germany — Bayer's chief executive on Thursday acknowledged the German maker of pharmaceuticals and crop chemicals was facing massive challenges from a wave of lawsuits over an alleged carcinogenic effect of its Roundup weedkiller."We have lost two cases in lower courts. That is why the company is massively affected. You see it in our share price," CEO Werner Baumann said in a panel discussion at an academic business event in Cologne."You see it selectively, mainly here in Germany and in France - less so in the USA - in our reputational scores," he added.Bayer has seen about 30 billion euros ($34 billion) wiped off its market value since August, when a U.S. jury found Bayer liable because Monsanto, acquired by Bayer for $63 billion last year, had not warned of weedkiller Roundup's alleged cancer risks. It suffered a similar courtroom defeat last month and more than 10,000 cases are pending."There's lots of politicking, campaigning and propaganda that goes entirely against the current regulatory status of our products. That has prompted U.S. lawyers to sue for damages - a big industry in the USA - following an outlier assessment of the potential risk by a subordinate organization," Baumann added.The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the European Chemicals Agency and other regulators across the globe have found that glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup, is not likely carcinogenic to humans.However, the World Health Organization's cancer arm in 2015 reached a different conclusion, classifying glyphosate as "probably carcinogenic to humans".AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel E. SlotnikW. E. B. Griffin, who depicted the swashbuckling lives of soldiers, spies and cops in almost 60 novels, dozens of which became best sellers, died on Feb. 12 at his home in Daphne, Ala. He was 89.The cause was colorectal cancer, said his son William E. Butterworth IV, who was also his writing partner.Mr. Griffin estimated that he had published more than 150 books, many of which appeared on the best-seller lists of The New York Times, Publishers Weekly and other publications. His output included fiction for young adults and children’s books. According to his website, there are more than 50 million copies of his books in print in more than 10 languages.Determining the exact number of books he wrote is not so easily done, however: He was a ghostwriter for many, and many others were published under a variety of pseudonyms, including Webb Beech, Edmund O. Scholefield, Allison Mitchell and Blakely St. James.Even the name W. E. B. Griffin was a pseudonym; his real name was William E. Butterworth III.His best-known books are under the Griffin name. The first was “The Lieutenants” (1982), which became the first installment in “The Brotherhood of War,” a nine-novel series that followed soldiers in the United States Army from World War II through the Vietnam War. Among his other series were “Badge of Honor,” about the Philadelphia Police Department, and “Clandestine Operations,” about the birth of the Central Intelligence Agency.Mr. Griffin’s writing was straightforward and a bit wry. In an early scene in “Top Secret” (2014) — the first book in the “Clandestine Operations” series — Lt. James Cronley is seated in a car with the young woman he will soon marry.“She turned to face him,” Mr. Griffin wrote. “Their eyes met. ‘Jimmy, you sound like my mother trying to reason with me. …’ Their conversation was interrupted when the proximity of their faces caused a mutual involuntary act on both their parts. A minute or so later, Jimmy said, ‘Jesus H. Christ!’ and Marjorie said, a little breathlessly, ‘Don’t let this go to your head, but as kissers go, you’re not too bad.’ ”His fast-paced novels, rooted in history and chockablock with technical details, combined action, sex and patriotism and had a devoted readership. A profile in The Washington Post in 1997 described Mr. Griffin as “the grizzled griot of the warrior breed” and “the troubadour of the American serviceman.”Mr. Griffin saw himself in simpler terms.“Basically I’m a storyteller,” he said. “I like to think I’m a competent craftsman, as writers go, but I am wholly devoid of literary ambitions or illusions.”His relentless pace — early in his career he sometimes completed four books a year — slowed somewhat in recent years. His son William became his full-time writing partner in 2006.William IV said he intended to keep writing in the style that Mr. Griffin’s fans enjoy; a new book in the “Badge of Honor” series, “The Attack,” is to be published in August, with more novels, in that and other series, to follow.William Edmund Butterworth III was born on Nov. 10, 1929, in Newark. His father, William II, was a traveling shoe salesman. His mother, Gladys (Schnabel) Butterworth, was a saleswoman in a department store.His parents divorced when he was a teenager, and William attended several East Coast preparatory schools before enlisting in the Army.He served in Germany just after the end of World War II, becoming a clerk and typist for Gen. Isaac Davis White. After a stint in college in Germany, he re-enlisted and again worked for General White during the Korean War.After the war, Mr. Griffin left the military to become a writer. He moved to Philadelphia, where he worked for a year as a corn oil and starch salesman, a job he despised. He soon moved to Fort Rucker in Alabama to work for the Army as a civilian technical writer.He published his first book, “Comfort Me With Love,” about a young soldier’s adventures in Europe after World War II, in 1959. Two years later he left his job at the base to write novels and other books full-time.Beginning in the mid-1970s he wrote several sequels to “M*A*S*H,” the 1968 novel, by the former military surgeon H. Richard Hornberger and the writer W. C. Heinz under a pseudonym, that inspired the movie and television show of the same name.Though many were optioned, Mr. Griffin’s own books, under any pseudonym, have never been turned into movies, his son William said. One reason was that studios balked when Mr. Griffin insisted on maintaining creative control.Mr. Griffin married Emma Macalik while he was stationed in Germany after the war. The marriage ended in divorce in the 1990s.He later married Maria del Pilar Menendez, whom he had met on a hunting trip in Argentina. They had a home in Pilar, a suburb of Buenos Aires, and split their time between there and Alabama. She died in 2018.In addition to his son William, his survivors include another son, John; a daughter, Patricia Black; many stepchildren; four grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; and many step-grandchildren.In 2009 Mr. Griffin told The Philadelphia Inquirer that he felt especially proud of his novel “The Honor of Spies,” which was about to be published.AdvertisementSupported byTiesAfter my near-death experience, I lost my fear of death. I didn’t expect to feel so blindsided when my son got leukemia.By Christine Gross-LohI had a near-death experience when I was 38, right after the birth of my third child. While midwives quickly tried to stop my postpartum hemorrhage, I felt myself float away. I didn’t see the proverbial tunnel of light. But boundaries dissolved and I felt ineffable peace. From far away I saw my new baby girl, squalling and red and not five minutes old, and wondered, dreamily, whose baby it was. I let go of everything, and loved everything in the world in equal measure, until the moment I came abruptly back to my own body, shivering uncontrollably.For years afterward, this was a secret memory tucked away, hardly remembered. But it had a lasting impact: After my near-death experience, I lost my fear of death. Which is why I didn’t expect to feel so blindsided the day my 15-year old son was given a diagnosis of leukemia.It began as such an ordinary day. While my sons studied for exams, I baked red velvet cupcakes with my daughters. We cleaned the tank of our half-moon betta fish and took the dog for a walk. But when evening came we found ourselves in an emergency room because my younger son, Daniel, who had been achy and listless for the last day or two, was now running a high fever. When the doctors pulled Daniel’s father and me out into the hallway and told us his diagnosis, I kept pinching myself. I was sure I was dreaming.When I arrived back home the next morning after our long, exhausting vigil at the hospital, I saw those red velvet cupcakes on the kitchen counter and cried. Our family’s future had been upended. All the familiar guideposts and events — school days, family meals, summer travel, the simplest things that mark ordinary time in a family’s life — were wiped away. We were told that because Daniel had acute myeloid leukemia, he would have to be hospitalized for up to half a year for treatment. Beyond that we had no idea what to expect.“This is the hardest day,” a friend told me on the night Daniel was diagnosed, “because you don’t know anything yet. You will feel better once you know more.”But that friend was wrong, because that wasn’t the hardest day. It was harder when a doctor told Daniel about his diagnosis. He sat there quietly, taking it all in. He asked just one question, in the bravest voice I’ve ever heard: “Am I going to make it?”It was harder when we told his three siblings. It was harder when Daniel asked me to wipe tears from his face because he was too weak to lift his own arms. It was harder the day I saw a family filing from another patient’s room, crying silently. The next day the room was cleared out and an empty crib stood out in the corridor.Sure, I’d conquered my own fear of death. But the potential death of my own child? That was a whole other order of magnitude. When my first child was born, I’d spent the second day of his life aghast at my own audacity for having brought into the world a life that would someday have to age, to die. That feeling was soon blanketed over by the minutiae of motherhood: the feeding, the changing, the first smile, the first step. Every milestone that made my child bigger and stronger took me further away from that early momentary dread.For so many parents, children are their immortality projects. Our hopes for their future stave off our fears of oblivion. But I knew now that bad things could happen in a moment, that only the thinnest membrane separated before and after. As we made our way through the terrible milestones of leukemia — hair loss, infections, feeding tubes and transfusions, one endless, brutal procedure after another — I felt lightheaded every time I stepped outside the hospital, blinking in the sunlight, at the ordinariness of people walking on sidewalks, picking up their children from school, drinking coffee in cafes. They looked so strange to me, as though I viewed them through a thick pane of glass. They seemed untouched while we were weighed down by sadness. It felt as though our family had been flung into some strange parallel universe populated only by those who had met with great misfortune.Who knows if it was some sort of premonition, but several months before Daniel fell ill I’d begun steeping myself in the writings of medieval mystics and philosophers. I had been especially drawn to the notion of memento mori, or “remember that you will die.”Immediately after Daniel’s diagnosis I shied away from anything having to do with death. Experienced friends told me to stay positive and upbeat and strong. We faced new medical crises every day. To even acknowledge dark possibilities felt like inviting defeat. But soon I returned to my beloved thinkers and found they offered new comfort in a disorienting world. I wanted to understand how to live in a world where death is so ever-present that it animates life.The idea that death exists alongside life, that it is the constant shadow that illuminates life and gives it meaning, far predated medieval times, of course. For Plato, philosophy was a meditation on death, an idea echoed by Seneca (“let us prepare our minds as if we’d come to the very end of life”) and taken up much later by Montaigne, who overcame a fear of death through his own near-death experience. Buddhist and Daoist thinkers taught that constant awareness of death enriches our lives. Awareness of our beautiful, ephemeral existence lies behind Japanese cherry-blossom viewing or the Tibetan sand mandala.Unlike the medieval monks who constructed entire chapels of bones or Victorian families who would ritualistically photograph their dead, in our culture and time it is not fashionable for us to linger on death. Extreme measures are taken to extend life. Tropes and platitudes abound: “Think positive.” See cancer as a “gift.” But I had made peace with my own mortality. Now I found that learning to live alongside even the mortality of a child I loved gave me a kind of strength that denialism could not, because it was a relief to acknowledge something that felt more true. When you realize your time on earth is finite, that we are all “being towards death,” as Heidegger wrote, then time expands.Hospital time is set apart from ordinary time. Each moment in the hospital feels eternal. For me, having a child in the hospital feels as though time has even slipped backward. Spending all these hours with him has given me a chance to reparent my son: to talk, to hold his hand, to care for him in the way few parents can care for their teenagers who are busy, busy, busy with the business of growing up.And we are the luckiest of the unlucky. Daniel will recover and come home; I feel guilt when I think of the families whose children will not. But follow-ups and vigilance about a possible relapse or secondary cancer will be our close companions in the years ahead. There can really be no return to the life that once was, just a stark awareness of life’s fragility. Death is a condition of being human.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MARCH 15, 2019

True or false? Exercise can often be as effective as medications in reducing blood pressure and body fat. TrueFalseResearchers in Singapore reported that older adults who ate this food several times a week were at reduced risk of developing mild cognitive impairment, often a precursor to Alzheimer's disease:ApplesOrangesMushroomsBroccoliThis juice may be particularly likely to affect levels of thyroid drugs, statins and many other medications:Orange juiceGrapefruit juiceCarrot juiceTomato juiceThis state has has one of the highest rates of unvaccinated residents in the country, with 7.5 percent of kindergarten-age children unvaccinated for nonmedical reasons: ArkansasAlabamaOregonTexasTrue or false? The more siblings a child has, the less likely he or she is to develop hay fever.TrueFalseThe American Cancer Society recommends colon cancer screening beginning at age:40455060True or false? Studies confirm that yoga can be very effective for treating urinary incontinence.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLower sales overseas and higher costs for research and litigation pushed Johnson & Johnson's first-quarter profit down 14%, but the health care giant beat profit and revenue expectations, pushing up its shares.The maker of Tylenol and psoriasis drug Stelara on Tuesday said unfavorable currency exchange rates reduced revenue by nearly 4%, leaving total sales flat at $20.03 billion, though that edged out analysts' muted projections.Sales of prescription medicines were the bright spot as usual, rising 4% and now accounting for over half of the New Brunswick, New Jersey, company's total revenue.The segment just got a boost from two U.S. Food and Drug Administration approvals, in March for nasal spray treatment Spravato for treatment-resistant depression and last week for bladder cancer drug Balversa."The good far outweighs any possible questions or concerns investors could have," particularly since total drug sales increased despite cheaper competition to key drugs, Danielle Antalffy of SVB Leerink wrote to investors. "These quarterly results should increase investor confidence."Longtime top seller Remicade, for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune disorders, posted a 21% sales drop, to $1.1 billion. Zytiga, which had been J&J's third-highest seller, saw sales fall 20% from a year ago, to $679 million.Earlier this month, J&J completed a key acquisition, paying $3.4 billion for Auris Health, which makes robotic technology used in lung treatments and diagnostic procedures. Johnson & Johnson said the deal will expand its digital surgery portfolio across multiple surgical specialties. J&J also struck a partnership with MeiraGTx to develop gene therapies for eye diseases.The world's biggest maker of health care products posted net income of $3.75 billion, or $1.39 per share, down from $4.37 billion, or $1.60 per share, a year earlier.Adjusted for research and development expenses and costs from ongoing litigation over its baby powder allegedly causing cancer in some people, earnings were $2.10 per share, 7 cents better than Wall Street expected, according to a survey by Zacks Investment Research.Revenue was $20.02 billion, with $10.24 billion of that coming from prescription drugs. Sales were led by Stelara, up 32.4% to $1.41 billion. Higher sales of cancer drugs Imbruvica and Darzalex, HIV drug Prezista and schizophrenia treatment Invega Sustenna also lifted the results, and J&J noted that a new study of diabetes drug Invokana showed it delayed the need for kidney dialysis. That should boost future sales.Addressing the public furor over soaring prices for brand-name medicines, Chief Financial Officer Joseph Wolk told analysts on a conference call that J&J's higher sales continue to be driven by greater use of its products, not price increases.Sales of consumer health products dipped 2.4% to $3.32 billion. Edward Jones analyst Ashtyn Evans wrote to investors that the 14% decline in sales of baby products is disappointing, "given the company just launched multiple new products to better compete with private labels."Medical device sales fell 4.6% to $6.46 billion. J&J noted it recently launched new AcuVue Oasis contact lenses that darken in bright sunlight, an industry first.The company reaffirmed its January forecast for 2019 sales totaling $80.4 billion to $81.2 billion, but raised the low end of its earnings-per-share forecast 3 cents, giving a new range of $8.53 to $8.63.AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronZainab Mughal, a 2-year-old girl from Miami, needs blood transfusions for her cancer treatment but she has a blood type so rare that so far only four donors worldwide have been identified.In August, doctors determined Zainab had neuroblastoma, a cancer that develops from immature nerve cells and most commonly occurs in young children.Frequent blood transfusions are required for Zainab’s treatment, but finding enough blood has been a challenge because she is missing the Indian-B antigen, a molecule found on the surface of most people’s red blood cells.Only people of Indian, Iranian or Pakistani descent are likely to be missing the antigen. That means that to be a potential match, a donor’s birth parents must be of one of those ethnicities. Less than 4 percent of people in those ethnic groups are missing the antigen, according to OneBlood, the organization that helped Zainab’s family share their story publicly.And because Zainab’s blood type is A-positive, the donor must also have either Type O or Type A blood.So far, OneBlood has identified only four matches worldwide in collaboration with the American Rare Donor Program — the most recent was discovered in the United Kingdom — but because blood donors are limited to giving only once every 56 days, Zainab needs three to six more donors, Susan Forbes, a OneBlood spokeswoman, said.Zainab has been receiving chemotherapy for months, and so far her tumor is shrinking. Next she needs surgery to remove the tumor, which would be followed by two bone marrow transplants.“The doctor said that for every bone marrow transplant, she’s going to need two to three units” of blood, Raheel Mughal, Zainab’s father, said in a video interview recorded for OneBlood. “And that’s not how much blood is available.”After OneBlood made a public plea for donors in early December, there has been a huge response: The organization has received about 22,000 emails in the last 30 days and has so far tested more than 2,200 units of blood at its lab, which has been operating around the clock, Ms. Forbes said. None was a match, she said.Zainab’s parents estimated that their daughter’s illness began more than 10 months ago when they noticed that her temperament changed and her appetite waned. She developed fevers and constipation, and she wasn’t urinating normally.Zainab was once an active, chubby child, but she lost weight and preferred to be on the bed instead of running around. Her condition seemed to worsen over the summer. The family recalled visiting relatives in Atlanta and attending a barbecue where Zainab was quiet and withdrawn.“Everybody wanted to play with her,” Mr. Mughal said. “So there were a lot of other kids there. But she would not play with anybody. My wife kept telling me, she said, ‘She is not O.K. She is not O.K.’”They brought Zainab to the pediatrician.“I went to the doctor and I said to her over and over, ‘She is not eating,’” Zainab’s mother, Mariam Mehmood, recalled during the interview.When they learned that Zainab had cancer, it was “devastating,” Mr. Mughal said. “At that time we were completely destroyed.”Zainab had a tumor growing in her stomach, Mr. Mughal said, and a biopsy revealed that it was cancer. Doctors have characterized Zainab’s neuroblastoma as high risk. Children in that category have a five-year survival rate of around 40 to 50 percent, according to the American Cancer Society.Soon after Zainab received her first blood transfusion, doctors realized that she was missing the Indian-B antigen, meaning that if her body receives blood that does have the antigen, her immune system will attack it.The presence or absence of antigens is what creates the eight most common blood types: A+, A-, B+, B-, O+, O-, AB+ and AB-. Those with Type A blood, for example, have Type A antigens and will produce antibodies to fight Type B blood. According to the Red Cross, there are more than 600 other known antigens and they create rare blood types, like the kind Zainab has.Next month Zainab will be 3 years old. Despite having had multiple chemotherapy treatments, she has remained resilient, her parents said.“The moment you remove the dressing from the port and you remove the needle — immediately after it, she becomes a totally different person. She forgets what happened to her,” Mr. Mughal said.The family is hopeful that she will recover with the right treatment. But first, she needs a larger supply of blood.“We are just praying and hoping every day, every single second,” her mother said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Neil GenzlingerAndre Williams, who carved out a place in the 1950s rhythm-and-blues scene with earthy songs distinctively delivered, then fell on hard times as a result of addiction before enjoying a late-career resurgence, died on Sunday in Chicago. He was 82.His son Derrick Williams said the cause was cancer.In a decade when mainstream white audiences were watching “Father Knows Best” on television, Mr. Williams was recording provocative songs like “Jail Bait” (1957), a sly warning to men inclined to date teenage girls. It ends with a narrator pleading with a judge for leniency and promising to abandon his lecherous ways:I ain’t gonna bother none 15,I ain’t gonna bother none 16,I ain’t gonna bother none 17,I ain’t gonna mess with none 18,I’m gonna leave them 20-year-old ones alone too,Gonna get me a girl about 42.Mr. Williams’s best-known song was probably “Shake a Tail Feather,” written with Otha Hayes and Verlie Rice, which was first recorded in 1963 by the Five Du-Tones (a version heard in the 1988 John Waters movie “Hairspray”) and also turned up in the 1980 film “The Blues Brothers” performed by Ray Charles.“He sang of the joys of poultry, pork, prepubescent flesh and being ‘The Only Black Man in South Dakota,’ ” the writer and radio personality James Marshall said by email, referencing another Williams song, “yet he never sounded trite, clichéd or banal.”Mr. Williams didn’t sing so much as speak his lyrics, in a casual sort of growl, and as a result he is sometimes called a harbinger of rap. Though he was never a household name or a million-selling artist, his style influenced garage bands and punk rockers, as well as performers like Ike and Tina Turner, who also recorded “Shake a Tail Feather.”By the 1970s, however, drugs and alcohol had begun to derail his career. He was homeless for a time, panhandling.“Between 7 and 9 was when the money came in,” he explained in Tricia Todd’s 2008 documentary, “Agile, Mobile, Hostile: A Year With Andre Williams,” revisiting the spot on the Randolph Street Bridge in Chicago where he used to ask for handouts. “All of the rich folks got off of that train, and they had to come down this bridge to go to all of them places where they steal folks’ money.”Punk rockers and others rediscovered Mr. Williams in the 1990s, and he began recording again. Miriam Linna, who runs the independent label Norton Records, recalled in a telephone interview how George Paulus of St. George Records helped revive Mr. Williams’s career.“One day he calls us up and says, ‘I found Andre Williams,’ ” she said. The rediscovery led to the 1996 album “Greasy,” with Norton issuing the vinyl and Mr. Paulus’s label issuing the CD.“It was a great montage of the old and the new,” Ms. Linna said of that record, on which Mr. Williams was backed by the doo-wop group El Dorados. A new version of “Jail Bait” led off the record.Mr. Williams followed that in 1998 with “Silky,” an album that showed him to be, if anything, more raunchy than ever. The Dallas Observer called the record “an affirmation that none of those wild young garage rockers who admire him so much can get as down and dirty as he can.”Some of the record’s song titles are unprintable here. To those who might have a problem with that, or with lyrics like “I want to be your favorite girdle so I can cling to your curvy hips” (from the track “I Wanna Be Your Favorite Pair of Pajamas”), he had an unapologetic response.“Get off my back about the language,” he said in an interview with The Observer. “I’m trying to tell a story. Dig the theme. We can’t all go on the expressway. Sometimes some of us got to take the low road.”Zephire Andre Williams was born on Nov. 1, 1936, in Bessemer, Ala., to Tom and Fannie Williams. The family went north to Chicago when he was a child, but when his mother died in 1943 he returned to the South to live with relatives.As a teenager Andre returned to his father in Chicago and used fake identification to enlist in the Navy, which discharged him when it discovered he was underage. He began singing with various groups and eventually signed with Fortune Records in Detroit.“Back in the days of the rhythm-and-blues groups, the high voice was the big thing,” Mr. Williams explained years later. “I sang baritone, so I knew I couldn’t compete with Nolan Strong or Clyde McPhatter” — prominent tenors of the day — “so I came up with my own thing, the spoken thing.”His first big success was “Bacon Fat,” which cracked the Top 10 of the Billboard R&B chart in 1957. There was also “Pass the Biscuits Please,” a droll song that consisted of not much more than Mr. Williams imploring someone, anyone, to pass him the biscuits.In the 1960s Mr. Williams spent several years writing and producing for the Motown label, working with the Temptations, the Contours and other acts.Ms. Linna said that in 2007 Mr. Williams, in rehab and not for the first time, called her in distress about how to escape his addiction demons. She suggested he try writing a book. In 2009 she published his “Sweets and Other Stories,” a fictional work written from the perspective of a young woman.“He wrote himself straight,” Ms. Linna said. “I didn’t think he was going to deliver. But he did.”Mr. Williams’s wife, Yvonne (Jarman) Williams, died in 2004. In addition to his son Derrick, he is survived by two other sons, Renaldo and Andre; two daughters, Andrea Harling and Rashandra Owens; 12 grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.Mr. Williams was as energetic onstage in his 70s as he had been in his youth, and he was quick to offer up tales from his fast-lane life.AdvertisementSupported byBy Janet MorrisseyAs politicians debate how to improve the nation’s expensive — and some would say broken — health care system, Americans are eagerly turning to the latest tech devices in hopes of preventing and detecting medical problems early and avoiding costly trips to the doctor or emergency room.“Technology every day is playing a more important role in preventing and even diagnosing illness,” said Gary Shapiro, chief executive of the Consumer Technology Association and author of “Ninja Future: Secrets to Success in the New World of Innovation.” “We are just beginning this journey of revolutionizing health care and reducing trips to the doctor.”Among the new inventions are many that use artificial intelligence, sensors or so-called internet of things (IoT) connectivity to do a host of groundbreaking tasks, from detecting Alzheimer’s from the sound of your voice to telling breast cancer patients, in real-time, if their chemotherapy treatment is working.Some patients seek out new devices as if their lives depend on it. And for some, it does.Take Jeff Brue, a tech guru for Hollywood films. Mr. Brue was on his honeymoon in Mexico in 2016 when his spleen ruptured and he was rushed to a hospital in the town of Zihuatanejo for a splenectomy. Upon returning home to Los Angeles, doctors wrongly gave him a diagnosis of angiosarcoma, a rare form of cancer, and began an aggressive chemotherapy regimen to treat it.“They told me I had a year to live,” Mr. Brue, who was then 34, said. Refusing to blindly accept the prognosis, he frantically searched the internet for data on his symptoms — which included a 105-degree temperature — and rushed the pathology reports to other major hospitals in the United States for additional opinions.A month later, doctors confirmed an error had been made and said he actually had non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, which was treatable. But by then, his immune system and liver had been damaged from the wrong chemotherapy treatments and from seven biopsies. He’s now awaiting a liver transplant in Pittsburgh.Mr. Brue attributes much of the misdiagnosis to outdated imaging tools and poor communication between radiologists and oncologists. “It’s a systemic problem,” he said.So between biopsies and positron emission tomography, or PET, scans, he set out to try and change the system. Mr. Brue took his OpenDrives digital storage system, which had made him a tech rock star in the film and entertainment industry where he worked on productions like “Gone Girl,” “House of Cards” and “Deadpool,” and brought it to the health care sector.His system will allow hospitals to store high resolution M.R.I. and C.T. scans, and other 3-D images on its network without having to compress them. Most hospital networks compress stored images, which can make the images fuzzy and potentially cause doctors to miss information, said Chad Knowles, chief executive of OpenDrives.And it’s fast: A PET scan that might take four minutes to retrieve from a network, now takes five seconds, Mr. Brue said. All of this makes it quick and easy to pull multiple high-resolution images — past and present — from the network, and share them with oncologists and radiologists in different offices, he said. He’s also adding A.I. tools to help with diagnosis.The Steadman Clinic in Vail, Colo., a leading orthopedic surgical hospital, became the first health facility to bring in the OpenDrives system, and talks are underway with several others, according to Mr. Brue.Voice analysis technology, which can detect mental and physical health conditions, like coronary artery disease, Alzheimer’s and even sleep apnea from the sound of someone’s voice, is another promising area of advancement.The technology uses A.I. to assess hundreds of metrics — like pitch, tone, pauses, word choices, breathing and how a person describes a photo — to detect problems.“The manner in which we speak and the word choices we make can be evaluated to accurately detect a growing list of clinical conditions,” said Rich Ross, health care research director at Gartner, a research and advisory firm.Sonde Health, Winterlight Labs and Beyond Verbal are among the companies developing this technology.“We look at about 540 different metrics,” said Liam Kaufman, chief executive and co-founder of Winterlight Labs, whose firm focuses on detecting cognitive medical conditions. “We published a number of studies in 2015 and 2016 that found we could predict Alzheimer’s at the time with 82 percent accuracy — and today we’re at about 93 percent,” he said.Pharmaceutical companies, like Johnson & Johnson, Cortexyme and Alector are using the Winterlight Lab’s voice technology for drug trials, according to Mr. Kaufman, but considerably more research and testing is needed before the technology is available to the masses.An increasing number of researchers are using A.I. to help radiologists make more accurate diagnostic decisions, especially in the area of breast cancer.About 41,000 women died from breast cancer in the United States in 2018, and women have a 1 in 8 chance of developing breast cancer in their lifetime, according to the American Cancer Society. Early detection is seen as key to survival.Regina Barzilay, a professor at M.I.T. and a member of M.I.T.’s Computer Science & Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, and Constance Lehman, chief of breast imaging at the department of radiology at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, created an A.I. system to improve the detection and diagnosis of lesions seen on mammograms.Current diagnostic tools make it tough to know definitively whether a suspicious lesion is high risk, benign or malignant, especially if the patient has dense breast tissue, said Dr. Barzilay, who is a breast cancer survivor herself. (She received the diagnosis and was treated in 2014.) This can result in false positive results that lead to unnecessary biopsies and surgeries.Roughly 70 percent of lesions are benign, 20 percent malignant and 10 percent high-risk following a needle biopsy, and 90 percent of those “high-risk” lesions are found to be benign following surgery, she said.“This means that every year, thousands of women go through painful, expensive, scar-inducing surgeries that weren’t even necessary,” Dr. Barzilay said.Her team’s system uses machine learning to detect similarities between a patient’s breast and a database of 70,000 images for which the malignant or benign outcome was known.She expects that her early-detection technology, which is being used at Massachusetts General, will be tested in 10 to 15 more hospitals by the end of the year.At Boston University’s Biomedical Optical Technologies Lab, or BOTLab, researchers have created a wearable probe that can monitor, in real-time, if chemotherapy is working on a breast-cancer patient. Patients typically wait weeks or even months to see if treatment is working because M.R.I. scans are too costly to do every day or week and they aren’t particularly good for tracking some treatments, among other factors, according to Darren Roblyer, assistant professor of biomedical engineering at Boston University and the head of BOTLab.“So there are patients who have been treated for three to six months of chemotherapy with absolutely no benefit, who are suffering the toxic side effects like hair falling out,” Dr. Roblyer said.This device uses near-infrared spectroscopy, or NIR, light technology to measure the tumor’s hemoglobin, metabolism, water and fat levels in a noninvasive way to determine whether the chemo is working. If not, treatments can be adjusted or stopped.The American Cancer Society recently teamed up with the Global Center for Medical Innovation’s T3 Labs to invest $100,000 in the project to help bring the technology from the lab to the commercial market. Dr. Roblyer said he expects to begin testing the device on breast cancer patients at Boston Medical Center in the next few months, but commercialization is likely several years away.Another promising technology is M.I.T.’s so-called “X-ray vision” technology. Yes, X-ray vision — a phenomenon usually exploited by comic book characters or mad scientists in science-fiction movies, but in this case using Wi-Fi and radio waves to see through walls to monitor patients with movement disorders or those prone to falling. Dina Katabi, a professor at M.I.T. and member of M.I.T.’s Computer Science & Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, is testing a wireless smart-home system, called Emerald, that uses A.I., sensors and radio signals to track a person’s movements, sleep stages, heartbeat, breathing, gait and other metrics — even through the walls in a home — as long as Wi-Fi is present. Basically, radio signals bounce off the person’s body, sending the reflection onto the device’s screen — in the form of a stick figure — that walks, sits, stops and moves its limbs just as the person does.The technology is aimed at making it easy to collect health and motion data in a nonintrusive way to monitor conditions like Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis or even sleep apnea so that doctors can adjust medications as needed. It can detect side effects or wrong drug doses through changes in heartbeat, breathing or other metrics, and monitor falls by older people who live alone.“Today, if you have a sleep issue and want to know how much deep sleep you’re getting, you go to a sleep lab, and they put E.E.G. electrodes on your head, other sensors on your body, and then ask you to sleep like that,” Dr. Katabi said. With a “smart” Wi-Fi box, all of this data would be collected without the need for body sensors.Emerald is used by some pharmaceutical companies to measure safety and efficacy during drug trials, but it’s not yet available to the general public.Although many of these new technologies have shown promising early results, it could be years, if ever, for some of them to reach the public.Scientists say it’s been an uphill battle just convincing medical journals to publish studies on A.I. or agencies to fund them, said Dr. Barzilay. The reason? Many don’t have computer scientists sitting on their boards who understand the technology.A year ago, she won the first American gold medal in cross-country skiing. Then she found out she had breast cancer. CreditCreditAlana Paterson for The New York TimesSupported byBy Christopher ClareyPhotographs by Alana PatersonPENTICTON, British Columbia — Inside the living room of her new home, Kikkan Randall held a wig in her hands.Her own hair is growing back, but it is still a long way from matching the shoulder-length coiffure with the pink streaks that she sported for much of her career to remind her audience that cross-country skiers were “NOT boring.”The blond wig with a pink streak — purchased last year in Anchorage, her home city — was meant to provide a sense of normalcy amid upheaval.“It’s funny,” she said last week as she placed it on her no-longer bald head. “Where we’re at now, I feel like I’m playing dress-up when I wear this.”A year ago, when Randall and Jessie Diggins won the United States’ first Olympic gold medal in cross-country skiing and its first medal of any kind in the sport in 42 years, Randall already had breast cancer.She just did not know it yet.After all the wide-eyed jubilation in Pyeongchang, South Korea, on the night of Feb. 21, 2018, Randall’s realization that something might be wrong came on a much quieter evening — and served as a stark reminder that cancer doesn’t really care if you are an Olympic medalist, an icon in your sport, have no family history of the disease and are more fit than 99.99 percent of the population.It was May 13, Mother’s Day, less than three months after her crowning achievement. The newly retired Randall; her husband, Jeff Ellis; and their 2-year-old son, Breck, had just spent a day in the outdoors near their new home in Penticton, a small Canadian city that sits between two lakes in the Okanagan Valley.They had hiked in the nearby mountains in the sunshine, bought a grill for their yard and shared the feeling that they were finally settling into a rhythm after months of transition and a post-Olympic move from Anchorage.“We’d had the best day,” Randall, 36, said. “I was so psyched on life, psyched to be a mom, psyched to be here starting our life here together. And then I was getting ready for bed and just happened to notice it.”Her fingers brushed across something hard in her right breast.“I thought it was my rib bone at first, but then it was, ‘Hmm, it feels like it’s kind of moving around in there,’” she said.The diagnosis, delivered on May 31 by telephone as she was traveling to a wedding in Sweden, was Stage 2 invasive ductal carcinoma.“Early on, there was definitely a heavy, why-me phase,” Ellis said of Randall’s reaction. “How is this possible? After all these years I finally got my medal and now I can’t enjoy it? So many years of delayed gratification. But Kikkan is pretty indomitable, which means that you are not always up, but that’s the predominant spirit.”Randall and Ellis have been uncommonly open throughout her treatment, particularly on social media — an attempt to connect with Randall’s fan base and to provide others in similar situations with information and inspiration. She has posted from the wig shop, the hospital recovery room, the bathroom mirror and her Penticton couch after chemotherapy and a cold caught from Breck left her drained and miserable for a stretch last year.Randall found the two pea-size tumors in her breast relatively early and received an upbeat prognosis for a common type of cancer. But as a new arrival in Canada, she did not yet have health insurance. The United States Olympic Committee agreed to continue providing coverage throughout her extensive and expensive treatment, but she was required to receive her primary cancer care in the United States.She chose Anchorage, where her parents and many of her closest friends live and where she remains a local icon after competing in five Olympics. But that meant weeks apart from Jeff and Breck as she shuttled between Canada and Alaska going through six rounds of chemotherapy, a lumpectomy, follow-up surgery and 33 sessions of radiation.Shortly before she finished her final radiation session, on Jan. 25, her mother, Deborah, opened a bottle of Champagne to mark the occasion. The bottle had originally been purchased to celebrate Randall’s long-awaited gold medal.“When cancer happened, my mom decided that bottle had a new meaning,” Randall said.There are, of course, private burdens, none heavier than the reality that Randall’s treatment means she and Ellis must postpone plans to have more children. That made her Mother’s Day discovery all the more poignant.“When I found out I had cancer, it was almost disbelief,” Randall said. “It was like, ‘I did everything right, and I’ve taken really good care of myself.’ I had put all this work in my career and was looking forward to a point where I would get the kind of time to not have to be so disciplined and enjoy the reward of all that effort. But what really has been the most upsetting is the fact we couldn’t try and have another kid right away.”In her mid-30s, with a tight window before she needed to start chemotherapy in July, Randall said she had enough time for one cycle of fertility drugs so the couple could try to have another child later. She and Ellis worked with a clinic in Seattle, which was unable to ship her some of the necessary medication because of import regulations. So Randall drove about 50 miles to the border, picked up the medicine and brought it back to Penticton.She said she produced nine eggs, six of which were viable. Five embryos were then created, but only three made it through the first week. Of those three, Randall said, only one did not have a high risk of leading to a miscarriage.“We would have loved to have three, but we got one, and you have about a 60 percent chance of that becoming a viable pregnancy,” she said.Randall and Ellis have nicknamed the surviving embryo Little Frosty.“He’s hanging out in Seattle in storage, and they can keep embryos up to 10 years,” she said.Randall said she expected to be on anti-hormone medication for at least five years, possibly as long as 10. Pregnancy is not advisable during such treatment, although Randall said she might be able to take a break from the medication to pursue having a child.“If we only ever end up with Breck, he’s amazing,” Randall said.The family moved to Penticton for a job opportunity for Ellis, a former 400-meter hurdler for Canada, who was later an elite cross-country skier. But he said he left his new job in July to play a bigger role with Breck and to have more flexibility to help Randall.After they moved to Canada for Ellis’s career, Randall’s pursuits are again taking precedence. The couple now work together out of the house, focusing on Randall’s business and charitable opportunities.Her regimen includes training in the small workout room on the ground floor. Last Friday morning, she put herself through a brisk circuit of weight lifting, dips, resistance band work and other exercises that she has tried to maintain since entering what she calls her G.I. Jane phase. She shaved her head after her hair began to fall out in clumps early in chemotherapy.Randall likes to do laundry between sets, and her deep breathing was often drowned out by the sound of a washing machine shifting through its cycles. Bottles of detergent share space on shelves with mementos from her and Ellis’s athletic careers.A photo of the gold medal finish from Pyeongchang, with Diggins’s arms thrust triumphantly skyward, sits atop a baseboard heater where Randall can see it as she sweats. Though there are signs of the strain, such as dark half-circles under her eyes, she looks lean and fit.“Thankfully all the muscles didn’t go away,” she said.She has put them to use: biking to and from her cancer treatments in Anchorage and hopping on skis very soon after her lumpectomy, using only one pole for a time to avoid overworking her right side. In September, she won a 10-kilometer run in Penticton, and last month, while still finishing radiation treatment, she won the women’s event at a duathlon ski race in Anchorage.“I don’t think cancer patients are told enough what they can do,” she said.Randall, who has a port implanted in her chest to continue receiving injections of the drug Herceptin, wants to promote physical activity during treatment. She has taken inspiration from and spoken with Gabriele Grunewald, the 32-year-old American middle-distance runner, who has continued to compete despite dealing with more virulent forms of cancer.Randall has no plans to return to top-level competition and has not skied more than 30 kilometers since her cancer diagnosis, but she will take part in the American Birkebeiner, a 50-kilometer ski marathon in Hayward, Wis., on Saturday. She then heads to China to take part in sprint ski races in the Bird’s Nest stadium as part of the buildup to the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing. In November, she intends to run the New York City Marathon.She also has regular meetings as a member of the International Olympic Committee and the board of the U.S.O.C. Those positions don’t come with a salary, so she needs to generate regular income through speaking engagements and sponsorships.The whirlwind, if she stays healthy, will resume soon enough. But last Saturday, with the weather and the agenda clear, she and Ellis packed their minivan with gear and drove about 45 minutes west to the groomed cross-country trails of Nickel Plate Nordic Centre.Ellis clicked into his bindings and towed Breck in a carrier with Randall whooping alongside them as they headed down a gentle slope. Later, as she sprinted across the snow on her own, the rest of her family took a break.AdvertisementSupported byBy Denise Grady and Roni Caryn RabinSILVER SPRING, Md. — Women with illnesses linked to breast implants challenged plastic surgeons, regulators and implant makers at an emotionally charged meeting on Monday at the Food and Drug Administration, demanding more information about the risks of the implants and calling for a ban on one that is associated with an unusual type of cancer.They asked implant makers to disclose the materials used in the devices and also called for a “black box” warning — a label that the F.D.A. can require, noting heightened problems with a drug or device.The implants that some patients and advocates want removed from the market have a textured or slightly roughened surface and have been associated with anaplastic large cell lymphoma, a cancer of the immune system. Dozens of other countries have already banned one type of textured implants, made by Allergan.Industry representatives defended implants, as did plastic surgeons, including several female surgeons who said they had implants themselves and had many patients who were pleased with implants and had no health problems.The F.D.A.’s general and plastic surgery devices panel is holding the two-day public forum to hear from researchers, advocates, patients and the industry about the implants, which have been available for decades.While the panel took no formal votes, its members were to consider further steps for the agency to take in exploring the growing scientific evidence about both breast implant-associated lymphoma and a constellation of debilitating symptoms generally referred to as breast implant illness.The panel’s experts repeatedly expressed frustration and astonishment at the dearth of good data on implants and the failure of breast implant makers to complete promised studies or follow patients for long enough to collect meaningful data.“We have a surprisingly limited amount of clear and consistent data given the number of years and the number of women involved,” said Natalie Compagni Portis, a patient representative on the panel.“I feel like we failed women with regard to implants,” Ms. Portis said. “We failed to inform, we failed to follow and we failed to listen.”At the meeting, one woman after another who said she became ill from the implants testified that plastic surgeons had reassured the women the implants were safe, and had described only the routine risks associated with any surgery. Some said they did not receive informational pamphlets from manufacturers that gave a more detailed accounting of the risks.“We do not feel we have been effectively and appropriately informed,” said Holly Davis, of Charleston, S.C., who got implants after a mastectomy.She said she developed memory problems and asked to be tested for Alzheimer’s disease. Now that the implants have been removed, her memory is coming back. “The pamphlets manufacturers are giving to plastic surgeons are not making it to us,” she said.“Don’t ignore us,” Ms. Davis pleaded with the panel. “We are real.”Christina Avila, of San Jose, Calif., got implants for reconstruction after a mastectomy six years ago when she was 38. She said she felt pushed into doing so during “a time of intense shock and vulnerability,” and did not realize that complications from the surgery could require repeat operations and interfere with her cancer treatment.“Women like me who would rather be alive than have something that looks like boobs need to have this information,” she said.But another breast cancer patient, Marie Jobson, 50, of San Jose, Calif., said reconstruction was an integral part of her recovery after a double mastectomy in 2013, and she implored the committee to make sure the option of implants would be available to future patients.“This medical device has allowed me to live in the present moment, in the now, whether it’s wearing a bikini or having intimacy with my husband,” Ms. Jobson said.Though silicone has long been regarded as inert, that idea was disputed by Dr. Jan Willem Cohen Tervaert, from the University of Alberta. He said silicone affects the immune system, and can set off a series of reactions that can lead to the pain and fatigue that many women have reported. Silicone can leak out of implants, even ones that have not ruptured, and he described two patients in whom silicone had been found in other parts of the body, including the brain.He said women with allergies or a personal or family history of autoimmune diseases seemed to have an increased risk of becoming ill from breast implants, and should be warned about it if they were considering the surgery.Other speakers suggested that lymphoma, and possibly other problems associated with implants, might occur in some patients as a result of a chronic infection caused by bacterial contamination of the implant at the time of surgery. Some researchers suspect textured implants, with more crevices and surface area, can foster the growth of bacteria.The expert panelists debated whether to restrict the use of textured implants, which have been more closely linked to the risk of lymphoma than smooth implants, but which also offer certain surgical advantages.But only a minority of the panelists seemed to favor banning them. The panel expressed interest in identifying what specific personal and family medical histories may make women more vulnerable to becoming ill after receiving implants.Many of the patients at the meeting wore two ribbons pinned to their lapels, one with pink and green stripes to express solidarity with those who have implant-associated lymphoma, and a second black-and-white ribbon for those suffering from less clearly defined implant illnesses.Last week, the F.D.A. issued warnings to two manufacturers in the United States, criticizing them for not conducting adequate follow-up studies of women who had undergone surgery to have breast implants.Two national registries, recently created, may fill in some of the gaps. One will follow patients with implant-related lymphoma, and the other will capture as much information as possible about all patients receiving breast implants. Panel members discussed what data the comprehensive registry needed, and settled on details about the patients’ health and risk factors before receiving implants, how they fared later and what type of implants they received.About 400,000 women in the United States get breast implants every year, including 300,000 for cosmetic reasons and 100,000 for reconstruction after mastectomies performed to treat or prevent breast cancer. Worldwide, about 10 million women have breast implants.An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of a woman who testified at the hearing on breast implants. She is Christina Avila, not Christine Avila.Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere is very little science behind most of the health claims made for CBD, the cannabis product turning up in cosmetics, foods and dietary supplements.With mainstream retailers Walgreens and CVS offering CBD skin products, it's easy to believe there must be something special about the trendy ingredient. But the claims are largely unproven, quality control standards don't exist and the legal status of CBD-infused food is in doubt.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration plans to hold a public hearing May 31 to gather more information on the science, manufacturing and sale of cannabis compounds such as CBD.A look at what we know as U.S. regulators work out what will and won't be allowed:WHAT IS CBD?CBD is one of more than 100 compounds found in marijuana. It's extracted using alcohol or carbon dioxide in factories. It's added to oils, mixed into creams and lotions and sold in candies and liquid drops.Widely sold online, CBD now is going mainstream. Prices range from $12 to $150 an ounce at high-end shops.CBD often comes from a cannabis plant known as hemp, which is defined by the U.S. government as having less than 0.3% THC. That's important because THC is what causes marijuana's mind-altering effect.CBD doesn't get people high, although it may be calming. Keep in mind some CBD products may contain THC, whether or not the label says so.People drug tested for work, addiction programs or because they take prescription opioids should take note: CBD products have caused people to fail urine drug screens.IS IT A MIRACLE CURE?If you believe the hype, CBD treats pain, relieves anxiety and both helps you sleep and keeps you focused.Most claims are based on studies in rats, mice or in test tubes. Some human research has been done, but in small numbers of people.One exception: For two rare seizure disorders, the evidence for CBD was strong enough to convince the FDA to approve GW Pharmaceutical's drug Epidiolex, which contains a purified form.The FDA has sent warning letters to companies marketing products with claims for CBD's effects on cancer, Alzheimer's disease, fibromyalgia and drug addiction.Only drugs that have been reviewed by the FDA as safe and effective can make claims that they treat or prevent diseases or medical conditions. Many CBD producers attempt to sidestep the issue by using only vague language about general health and well-being.ANY SIDE EFFECTS?Scant research means not much is known about side effects either. In epilepsy research, CBD changed the way the body processed other drugs. That suggests CBD could interact with medications in ways we still don't know about.The most common side effects of the CBD drug Epidiolex include sleepiness, decreased appetite, diarrhea, increases in liver enzymes, exhaustion, rash and infections. The potential for liver injury and other risks can be handled with medical supervision, former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said earlier this month, but less is known about how that would be managed without oversight. And there are questions about overlap if multiple CBD products are used.IS IT LEGAL?For now, the FDA has said CBD is not allowed as an ingredient in food, drinks or dietary supplements.In stating its position, the FDA cited a provision of the law prohibiting food makers from using active drug ingredients or those still undergoing substantial research. But the agency doesn't have the resources to police all the CBD products that are already available, said Marc Scheineson, a former FDA official."They're not going to pull a thousand products from the market," he said.The FDA's authority is over interstate commerce, and local officials have taken differing approaches. In New York, Los Angeles and elsewhere, officials are warning eateries to stop selling it in food and drinks. Maine passed a law allowing it in foods and other products in the state.Skin creams and cosmetics may be on safer footing with the FDA, but that too remains uncertain, said Camille Gourdet of RTI International, a nonprofit research institute in Durham, North Carolina. Though cosmetics aren't subject to premarket approval by the FDA, they could run afoul of regulations if they make specific health claims.Marijuana itself is illegal under federal law; most states that have legalized it allow marijuana-infused foods and candies, called edibles.ARE CBD LABELS ACCURATE?What you buy may contain much less CBD than the label states — or much more. It may include more THC than you want and it may be contaminated with mold or pesticides. Ask to see testing reports.A 2017 study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found 70% of CBD products were mislabeled. Researchers used an independent lab to test 84 products from 31 companies."You're really flying by the seat of your pants when you buy this stuff," said author Marcel Bonn-Miller of University of Pennsylvania.A product labeled as containing 100 milligrams of CBD may only have 5 milligrams or it may have 200, said Bonn-Miller, now an adviser for a company that sells CBD and other cannabis products. He did not work in the industry when he did the research."I wouldn't trust any of it until I knew independently it was safe," Bonn-Miller said.WHAT'S AHEAD?CBD research is planned or underway for cancer, autism, diabetic neuropathy, fibromyalgia, chronic pain, alcoholism with PTSD and psychiatric conditions. Results will take years, but some people aren't waiting."They are vulnerable and really hoping to feel better," said Karen Hande, a nurse practitioner at Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center in Nashville.She became an expert in CBD because so many of her cancer patients were trying it. She tells them the evidence isn't enough to back the claims, but "they want to believe something is going to work."___Follow AP's complete marijuana coverage: https://apnews.com/MarijuanaAdvertisementSupported byBy Shane Goldmacher[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]It has been more than 17 years since the World Trade Center collapsed in the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, and since 2011, a rededicated fund has compensated emergency personnel and others who responded to the scene and have since gotten sick, as well as the families of the deceased.But with medical claims on the rise, the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund is running out of money: Already, more than $5 billion of the $7.375 billion it was allotted in 2015 to give away over five years has been spent.The fund’s special master announced in mid-February that it would be necessary to slash in half the payouts for those already waiting in line; new claimants could see payments cut by as much as 70 percent.The severe reductions have sparked a renewed push in Congress to press for more money to replenish the depleted fund — resurrecting fears of another protracted battle with Senate Republicans, who nearly quashed the fund in 2011.On Monday, top lawmakers from New York, including Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, who has pressed for the legislation for years, and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, held a Capitol Hill news conference to call for the fund to be extended for the lifetime of those who were at ground zero.They were joined by Jon Stewart, the comedian and former talk show host, who has been outspoken on behalf of ground zero workers since the attack. Mr. Stewart went out of his way to praise President Trump’s Justice Department for handling claims quickly, tapping the microphone as he said the administration was doing an “excellent job.”“Now it’s Congress’s job to fund it properly and let these people live in peace,” Mr. Stewart said.Mr. Stewart characterized the Republican Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, as an “impediment.” A spokesman for Mr. McConnell said he was “reviewing the legislation” and “we do not have any announcements at this time.”The fund first operated from 2001 to 2004, covering people who died or were injured during the attacks. It doled out $6 billion to victims’ families and $1 billion to the injured.The fund then went dormant, before reopening in 2011, after Congress passed the James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act.When the Zadroga Act first came up in 2011, some Republican members of Congress were unsure about the wisdom of creating a new federal entitlement, and suggested that perhaps the expenses of 9/11 care should fall to the states.In general, the legislation has not drawn loud opposition on Capitol Hill, but instead has gotten bogged down in political maneuverings. It was renewed in 2015, and allows claims to be submitted until Dec. 18, 2020.“It’s an arbitrary date that was set,” said Robert Tilearcio Jr., whose father was a firefighter in Engine 266 who worked on ground zero in the months following the attack. His father was diagnosed with brain cancer in 2015 and died in 2017.Mr. Tilearcio Jr., whose father lobbied Capitol Hill for the fund when he was healthy, is awaiting a wrongful death claim that could now be cut in half, which he called “a slap in the face.”The number of compensation claimants has spiked drastically. The special master who oversees the program, Rupa Bhattacharyya, has said that in the fund’s first five years, through 2016, there were 19,000 compensation forms filed. In the two years after that, there were almost 20,000 more. And in January 2019 alone, there were another 4,800 claims.“The stark reality of the data leaves me no choice,” Ms. Bhattacharyya said when announcing the payment cutbacks. The average payout has been $240,000, according to her office, with the average claim for deceased individuals a much higher $682,807. The highest payout was $4.1 million.John Feal, who was a demolition supervisor at ground zero, lost his foot when a giant steel beam crushed it; he has become one of the leading advocates for a permanent victims compensation fund.“People are sick and dying and this is a morbid, perverted game that Congress plays that’s just not right,” said Mr. Feal, who was in Washington this week. “I have people in wheelchairs, people with six months to live and oxygen tanks on this trip.”Mr. Feal is a veteran of these legislative battles. “In 2010, we had to beg. In 2015, we had to ask nicely,” he said. “In 2019, we’re demanding it.”The fate of the new effort in Congress remains unclear. There was bipartisan support on Monday, with Senator Cory Gardner, a Colorado Republican, and Representative Peter King, a New York Republican, both in attendance at the news conference with Mr. Stewart.In the House, the legislation will go through the House Judiciary Committee, where the chairman, Jerrold Nadler, the New York Democrat, is supportive.Under the Zadroga Act, the fund was expanded to include recovery workers and those who were near the site of the attacks who have since suffered from illnesses, such as certain cancers, that might be related to exposure to toxins in the dust and debris.“The compensation fund is their apology to us,” said Bridget Gormley, whose father was a Brooklyn-based firefighter who spent the months after the attack at ground zero. He died in 2017 after being diagnosed with bladder cancer and then lung cancer.Ms. Gormley now works with a law firm that advocates for 9/11 compensation claimants and is one herself. Now she faces a large cutback.“They seem to think that cancer works on a timeline and has five-year cycles,” she said of Congress, “and it doesn’t.”Follow Shane Goldmacher on Twitter: @ShaneGoldmacher AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesThe operator of Japan’s ruined Fukushima nuclear power plant began removing radioactive fuel rods on Monday at one of three reactors that melted down after an earthquake and a tsunami in 2011, a major milestone in the long-delayed cleanup effort.Thousands of former residents have been barred from the area around the plant for years as crews carried out a large-scale radioactive waste cleanup in the aftermath of the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl. The process of removing the fuel rods from a storage pool had been delayed since 2014 amid technical mishaps and high radiation levels.The plant operator, Tokyo Electric Power, said in a statement that workers on Monday morning began removing the first of 566 spent and unspent fuel rods stored in a pool at the plant’s third reactor. A radiation-hardened robot had first  located the melted uranium fuel inside the reactor in 2017.“Thanks to their training, the work has been going smoothly,” Tomohiko Isogai, the director of the nuclear plant, was quoted as saying by the Japanese broadcaster NHK, referring to workers involved in the fuel cleanup. He added that plant officials were “very sorry” over the delays in the process.There are 1,573 fuel rods still inside the storage pools of the three reactors that melted down in 2011, the Kyodo News agency reported on Monday. Tokyo Electric said that the cleanup at the third reactor would take just under two years, and that it planned to eventually remove uranium from all three reactors.Workers at the third reactor are using a remotely operated crane to remove the fuel rods, in a process that occurs underwater to prevent radiation leaks. The rods are dangerous partly because the pools are not enclosed, and they could be vulnerable in the event of another major earthquake.Tokyo Electric’s announcement comes a few days after people began moving back to Okuma, a town near the ruined plant, after the authorities said that radiation levels there had fallen to a safe level.Last year, Japan acknowledged for the first time that exposure to radiation at the site had caused a death. The announcement came after a man who had worked mostly at the plant over 28 years died of lung cancer.The authorities had previously acknowledged that three other Fukushima workers developed leukemia and thyroid cancer after working on the plant cleanup. But experts are divided on whether exposure to radiation can be linked to illnesses among children who lived near the plant.Makiko Inoue contributed reporting from Tokyo.AdvertisementSupported byDoctorsListening to the experience of my roommate in the cancer ward was like a kind of sonar, an echo bouncing back to me from my own future path, hinting at what’s to come.By Adam Philip Stern, M.D.The radiology tech waved me into his cozy dark room filled with bright screens. It’s usually off-limits to patients, but maybe he knew I was a local doctor and faculty member at Harvard Medical School, which can occasionally get me a backstage pass. With a smirk, he told me I should eat something, pointing at the air in my stomach on the X-rays he had taken moments earlier.I’d had surgery to remove three metastatic tumors from my lungs just hours before, and every breath ended with a wince. Food was not on my mind, but the tech had made me smile — air in the stomach usually signals that the patient needs to burp, not hunger. I began thinking about the potential for a case report in The New England Journal — 34-year-old man with metastatic renal cell carcinoma needs a burp.Back in my hospital room, my mind went to the last time I found myself in a radiology reading room. It was Jan. 19, 2018, and I was looking at my own CT scan images late on a Friday afternoon, self-diagnosing the emotionally incomprehensible image before me as kidney cancer just minutes before my primary care doctor called back with the results. I called my brother and kept him on the phone with me for as long as I could, and still it was the most alone I have ever felt. My doctor told me that the radiologist said it was Stage 3, which meant that it could potentially be cured with surgical removal of my kidney. There were tiny nodules in my lungs, but they were too small to say anything definitive about.Within a week, an all-star cast of renowned experts in renal uro-oncology had removed my left kidney. I was told that there was about a 50 percent chance this cancer would never return, and I wanted to believe that. I knew the numbers: five-year survival rates of Stage 4 or recurrent kidney cancer, in the lungs for example, are under 10 percent, though improving every year with new treatments. If only I could stay at Stage 3, maybe I could put this all behind me and live the life I had always planned with my wife watching our little boy grow up.In recovery from my initial surgery, I shared a room with a man whose face I never saw but who seemed much sicker than I was. From the noises coming from behind the curtain, he seemed to be in a lot of discomfort, wandering in and out of consciousness. I was recovering from a freak illness, I told myself, but this man was very ill — a different kind of patient altogether. He couldn’t tell that the blaring television was keeping me awake because most of the time he didn’t seem to know what was going on around him. Eventually I was discharged and got some rest at home, but I still sometimes wonder how he had fared. In the year since that initial operation and recovery, I’ve begun to realize how much denial there was in my first assessment of that man. Refusing to believe that I might share his path may have been protective in the short term, letting me live this last year with love and laughter, work and play as though I could keep it up until my 90th birthday. But my denial didn’t do anything to prevent the anguish I felt when my cancer sprouted a new nodule in my right lung 10 months later. It didn’t reduce the pain I felt finding out that those tiny nodules in my lungs at the time of diagnosis were cancer all along. Cancer patients usually attempt to maintain a positive attitude, and I appreciate how much better it is to do so than to be consumed by negativity, but no mind-set would have meaningfully muted the shock of my recurrence and the burden of having to tell my family that actually I’ve been in Stage 4 all along. We just didn’t know it.This last year, I’ve lived more fully than ever before in my life, holding my wife and son tighter and saying “no” more readily to work projects and other demands on my time that wouldn’t enrich my life. I’ve learned to let life’s frustrations roll off me more casually, though the hospital parking garage still manages to make my blood boil. I’ve made sure to tell my family and friends that I love them.No one can tell me with any certainty about what lies ahead. Will I be ready for it? These questions circle in my mind on an ever-present loop without resolution. I know that I can’t predict what comes next, but since my cancer recurred I have become committed to living in each moment and listening for clues about tomorrow.In my recovery from last week’s lung surgery, I again shared a room with someone further along in his illness than I. While I have no access to the details of his case, the somber tones used by his doctors behind the curtain were telling. His treatments were not working. His cancer was advancing, and a new plan had to be formed urgently. As with my last hospital roommate, I never saw this man’s face and we never spoke, but I feel immeasurably close to him, as though in some ways I know him better than my dearest friends. He heard me gasping for air through the night and yelping in pain as the chest tube got pulled, and I heard him trying to be brave for his family, reassuring them that they would go forward with whatever came next as best they could. I heard him speak in a reassuring voice to his children, only to hang up and weep loudly into the night until passing into a sleep from pure exhaustion.Listening to him was like a kind of sonar, an echo bouncing back to me from my own future path, hinting at what’s to come.When I was getting ready for discharge, I had the urge to pull the curtain and embrace him as he told me the secrets of what to expect next. I would ask how had he navigated the path from here to there. I would lay down the weight of uncertainty that surrounds my life and ask: What should I do now? How I can live with only a vague sense of dread of what’s to come as my guide?AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — Pressure was mounting on Johnson & Johnson and its signature Baby Powder.In 2006, an arm of the World Health Organization began classifying cosmetic talc such as Baby Powder as “possibly carcinogenic” when women used it as a genital antiperspirant and deodorant, as many had been doing for years. Talc supplier Luzenac America Inc started including that information on its shipments to J&J and other customers.J&J, meanwhile, looked for ways to sell more Baby Powder to two key groups of longtime users: African-American and overweight women. The “right place” to focus, according to a 2006 internal J&J marketing presentation, was “under developed geographical areas with hot weather, and higher AA population,” the “AA” referring to African-Americans.“Powder is still considered a relevant product among AA consumers,” the presentation said. “This could be an opportunity.”In the following years, J&J turned those proposals into action, internal company documents show. It distributed Baby Powder samples through churches and beauty salons in African-American and Hispanic neighborhoods, ran digital and print promotions with weight-loss and wellness company Weight Watchers and launched a $300,000 radio advertising campaign in a half-dozen markets aiming to reach “curvy Southern women 18-49 skewing African American.”These are only some of the more recent examples of J&J’s decades-long efforts to offset declining Baby Powder sales amid rising concern about the health effects of talc, based on a Reuters review of years of J&J print, radio and digital advertising campaigns and thousands of pages of internal marketing documents and email correspondence.Adults have been the main users of Johnson’s Baby Powder since at least the 1970s, after pediatricians started warning of the danger to infants of inhaling talc. As adults became ever more crucial to the brand – accounting for 91 percent of Baby Powder use by the mid-2000s – J&J honed its powder pitches to court a variety of targeted markets, from teen-focused ads touting the product’s “fresh and natural” qualities, to promotions aimed at older minority and overweight women.Today, women who fall into those categories make up a large number of the 13,000 plaintiffs alleging that J&J’s Baby Powder and Shower to Shower, a powder brand the company sold off in 2012, caused their ovarian cancer or mesothelioma.Many of the ovarian cancer lawsuits have blamed the disease on perineal use of J&J cosmetic talcs – a claim supported by some studies showing an association between such use and increased cancer risk. The most recent cases have alleged that J&J’s talc products contained asbestos, long a known carcinogen.In an investigation published Dec. 14 https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/johnsonandjohnson-cancer, Reuters revealed that J&J knew for decades that small amounts of asbestos had occasionally been found in its raw talc and in Baby Powder and Shower to Shower, based on test results from the early 1970s to the early 2000s – information it did not disclose to regulators or the public.J&J challenged the findings of the Reuters report, describing them as inaccurate and misleading.BABY POWDER "EVERYWHERE"Krystal Kim, a 53-year-old African-American, was one of 22 plaintiffs whose case in St. Louis resulted in a jury verdict last summer of $4.69 billion against J&J. Kim said Baby Powder and Shower to Shower were household staples among her family and friends when she was growing up in New Jersey. Kim played baseball as a teenager, she said, and her mother told her to apply Baby Powder to avoid being “the stinky girl.”“Every time I took a shower, I put Baby Powder on,” recalled Kim, whose ovarian cancer, first diagnosed in 2014, is now in remission. “I put it on my panties, on my clothes, everywhere.”J&J is appealing the St. Louis verdict. The company did not respond to requests for an interview with Chief Executive Officer Alex Gorsky or any other executive to discuss the company’s marketing of cosmetic powders.In an emailed response to questions from Reuters, J&J said its Baby Powder is safe and asbestos-free. It noted that the company’s marketing over the years has been directed at many demographics and groups, and that “we’re proud pioneers of the practice of multicultural marketing.” It also pointed out that some Baby Powder ads have featured the cornstarch version of Baby Powder, the safety of which isn’t questioned.Reports by Bloomberg News, the New York Times and the Post and Courier of Charleston, South Carolina, have cited some internal J&J documents revealing the company’s focus on African-American and overweight women at certain times. But the full timeline and scale of the marketing efforts, particularly those aimed at teenage girls, in minority communities and through organizations such as Weight Watchers, are reported here for the first time.Most businesses know the demographic profiles of those who buy their products and, as a matter of course, direct their marketing at those groups. Some – fast-food companies and soft-drink makers, for example – have courted minority customers to increase sales among heavy users at times of growing public concern about the possible health effects of their products.In a lawsuit filed in Mississippi state court in 2014, Mississippi Attorney General Jim Hood alleges that J&J failed to warn consumers of the risks associated with its talc products and accuses the company of implementing a “racially targeted strategy” for selling Baby Powder after J&J became aware of health concerns. The company focused its marketing on “minority communities expected to be more likely to use the talc products,” Hood claims in the lawsuit.J&J denied the allegations and last year filed a motion for summary judgment in the suit, arguing that the case involved matters of federal law, beyond the state’s purview. A judge in December denied J&J’s motion, a move the company has appealed. The case is scheduled for trial later this year.In its response to Reuters’ questions, J&J said: “Suggesting that Johnson & Johnson targeted a particular group with a potentially harmful product is incredibly offensive and patently false.”“DEEP, PERSONAL TRUST"Sold continuously since 1894, Johnson’s Baby Powder accounted for less than 1 percent of J&J’s $81.6 billion in revenue last year, but it is deemed critical to the company’s family-friendly image. An internal J&J marketing presentation from 1999 refers to the baby products division, with Baby Powder at the core, as J&J’s “#1 Asset,” grounded in “deep, personal trust.”Beginning in the 1950s, however, a series of case studies published in medical journals pointed to the dangers of breathing in talc. Pediatricians took notice. By the late 1950s, a third of them were recommending cornstarch or oil to treat diaper rash and chafing “because there is no dangerous dust” in them, according to an internal J&J report.A report in the June 1966 edition of the American Journal of Diseases of Children, citing the deaths of three children who inhaled large amounts of talcum powder, concluded there was “no justification” for using the product on babies because it has “no medicinal value.”By 1974, more than 60 percent of Johnson’s Baby Powder sales were “attributable to adults” who used it on themselves, according to a J&J analysis.Losing the connection to the product’s namesake – babies – left J&J eager to cultivate other markets.Beginning in the 1970s, J&J ran ads clearly intended to woo young women, in addition to its traditional marketing aimed at families with babies. “You start being sexy when you stop trying,” was the line from an ad that appeared in Seventeen magazine in 1972. The photo shows a young woman stroking a young man’s curly blond hair.“It’s a feeling you never outgrow,” is how an ad in Family Circle magazine from the mid-1980s put it, with a photo of a bottle of Baby Powder next to a teddy bear alongside the mirrored reflection of a young woman.In 1989, advertising firm Young & Rubicam submitted a plan to J&J to “initiate a high level of usage” among young women to “augment the weakening baby link.” Under the plan, ads in style magazines like Seventeen, YM, Glamour and Mademoiselle would try to convince teen girls that Johnson’s Baby Powder, “applied daily after showering, is a simple, feminine way to smell clean and fresh during the day.” Young & Rubicam, now known as VMLY&R, declined to comment on the document and referred questions to J&J.Baby Powder sales continued to fall throughout the 1980s and early 1990s. Since health professionals had already recommended against using talc on infants, a 1986 internal report warned, a “last straw” safety concern could lead consumers to abandon the product altogether.As early as 1992, the company keyed in on the sales potential with minority women. A J&J memo that year mentions “high usage” rates for Baby Powder of 52 percent among African-Americans and 37.6 percent among Hispanic customers – and notes that women of both ethnicities use the product more than the general population.The memo suggests investigating “ethnic (African American/Hispanic) opportunities to grow the franchise,” while referring to “negative publicity from the health community on talc,” including “inhalation, dust, negative doctor endorsement, cancer linkage.” Portions of that memo were cited in reports from Bloomberg and the New York Times.STAGNATING SALESBy 2006, the company was recognizing that “consumers do not see a need for powder,” according to a sales presentation that year. Baby Powder shipments had been “stagnating” in recent years, the presentation said, and it was essential to “find a new business model” that “strategically and efficiently targets high propensity consumers.”Those groups, according to the presentation: African-Americans, nearly 60 percent of whom used Baby Powder by this time, compared to about 30 percent for the overall population; overweight people; and fitness-conscious people looking to lose weight.It was also in 2006 that the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), an arm of the World Health Organization, classified perineal use of talc as “possibly carcinogenic,” saying available research provided “limited evidence” it caused cancer in humans. That came about 20 years after IARC classified “talc containing asbestiform fibres” as “carcinogenic to humans,” its highest-risk classification.After the IARC’s 2006 move, talc supplier Luzenac America started including a note about the agency’s latest classification on a chemical safety document accompanying shipments to all customers, including J&J. Under a heading that reads “carcinogenic status,” the document says IARC “has concluded that perineal use of talc-based body powder is possibly carcinogenic to humans.”In a deposition for one of the ovarian cancer cases tried in St. Louis, a Luzenac America executive, Shripal Sharma, said the company felt it was important to add what he referred to as a warning to the safety document. Asked whether Luzenac knew that J&J did not pass on this warning, Sharma said: “It is not our job to tell our customers what to do with their products.”In a statement to Reuters, Imerys Talc America Inc, as Luzenac is now known, said: “Talc’s safe use has been confirmed by multiple regulatory and scientific bodies,” echoing J&J’s response.Through an Imerys spokeswoman, Sharma declined to comment.Two years after the IARC classification, J&J sought proposals for an “African American agency” to develop marketing campaigns for the company’s baby products line. A 2008 document sent to prospective agencies summed up the situation: “Johnson’s Baby Oil and Baby Powder products, while traditionally used only on babies, are today primarily consumed by adult AA women for use on themselves.” One way to reverse the brand’s decline, it said, was by “speaking to AA consumers with a more relevant message with the most effective media vehicles.”“ETHNIC CONSUMERS”That year, the company contracted with a North Carolina marketing firm, Segmented Marketing Services Inc, which says it specializes in targeted promotions to “ethnic consumers.” The firm would distribute 100,000 gift bags containing Baby Powder and other Johnson’s baby products in African-American and Hispanic neighborhoods in Chicago, according to a contract with J&J.Run by African-Americans who had been executives at Procter & Gamble Co and Quaker Oats, Segmented Marketing Services has said in past press releases and its own marketing publications that it hands out millions of free product samples and promotional offers through national networks of more than 10,000 African-American and Hispanic churches, and tens of thousands of “beauty salons, barber shops, entertainment venues and healthcare networks.”The company published an advertorial in 2008 prepared for distribution with Johnson’s baby products in which the firm’s founders, Sandra Miller Jones and Lafayette Jones, said they “welcome” J&J as a partner.“When caring rituals started in infancy continue through adulthood, a person’s self-confidence and even faith in the world are often strengthened,” the pamphlet said. “Whether in the gym, at work, at church or at the beach, Johnson’s Baby Powder helps grown-ups feel more comfortable in their own skin.” It came with a coupon for $1 off Baby Powder.Lafayette Jones and Sandra Miller Jones did not respond to calls, emails and LinkedIn messages seeking comment.J&J also launched campaigns to boost sales of Baby Powder to “curvy Southern women” and athletic adults who want to smell fresh, according to company documents. It advertised in Weight Watchers magazine and offered promotions through the Lane Bryant clothing chain for plus-size women and Curves, a women’s fitness and weight-loss franchise. Marketing plans also included ads to run in Southern Living magazine and during the Style Network show “Ruby,” a reality TV series that documented an obese Georgia woman on a mission to lose weight.A 2009 presentation laying out the “Powder media plan” highlights that it will reach 31 million people “in the South (hot climates/overweight states),” and that “43% of our plan will focus on the top 10 overweight states in the nation.”A 2009 ad in Weight Watchers magazine suggests readers “bust stress with a midday workout” and then “stay fresh post-exercise by applying Johnson’s Baby Powder.”Internal J&J marketing emails before the Weight Watchers campaign ran discuss whether the women featured are heavy enough to resonate with the intended audience. “Can you ask WW if they have any images of slightly bigger women? They don’t have to be super curvy, but a little bigger than the current image would be preferable,” wrote Grace Lee, a J&J brand manager, to others at the company and ad agency Lowe New York.Weight Watchers, now known officially as WW International Inc, declined to comment on the campaign. Lee & Interpublic Group of Companies Inc, which owns the former Lowe New York, didn’t respond to requests for comment.SUMMER SUCCESSThe Weight Watchers campaign was successful, according to a 2009 internal J&J recap, which showed that sales of Baby Powder at Wal-Mart shot up as much as 9 percent during the summer months when the ads ran from the same months a year earlier, reversing a decline.J&J’s overall Baby Powder media advertising budget increased to a proposed $495,000 for 2010, up 71 percent from $288,000 in 2009, driven by more dedicated spending toward promotions for overweight women.The company in 2010 launched a radio campaign in the South targeting “Curvy Southern Women 18‐49 Skewing African American.” A presentation from TMPG, a marketing agency that handles promotions with radio DJs, said the campaign made more than 18 million impressions on the target audience through ads and promotions on “urban adult contemporary” radio stations in Southern markets, including Dallas; Atlanta; Nashville; Mobile, Alabama; and Jackson, Mississippi.The presentation slides feature some photos of plus-size African-American women holding Baby Powder samples at “targeted station events” that also included spa giveaways and “Baby Powder Stay Cool Cash.” TMPG did not respond to requests for comment.In a 2010 email, Debra DeStasio, a J&J promotions and marketing manager who oversaw the baby products line at the time, gave the green light to two proposed radio stations for the campaign in Dallas, saying “we are good with those general market stations that have good Hispanic reach and good AA reach.” In another 2010 email, she said the DJs will be the Baby Powder “brand ambassadors,” charged with “communicating our message, encouraging listeners to call in to talk about how they use Baby Powder and driving to retail where appropriate.”All the radio promotions would be “based on the weather,” she wrote. “If it’s hot and humid, we’ll run that week. If it’s rainy or colder, we won’t.”DeStasio, who now works as a promotions and marketing manager at Bristol-Myers Squibb Co, did not respond to requests for comment.J&J’s spending on Baby Powder promotions – coupons, discounts, and samples – came to about $1.2 million in 2008 and again in 2010, almost half of it directed at overweight and minority women. By 2011, the company cut back its promotional spending to $752,000, mostly aimed at the general consumer market.In 2013, a jury found J&J negligent in the first case ever to claim that regular use of Baby Powder for feminine hygiene caused ovarian cancer. The jury didn’t award monetary damages, but the verdict spawned a cascade of similar lawsuits.Of the eight ovarian cancer cases that have gone to trial so far, four have resulted in verdicts for plaintiffs and one for the company. Three other verdicts against J&J were overturned on appeal.In 12 trials of cases claiming that asbestos in talc caused plaintiffs’ mesothelioma, J&J was cleared of liability in five, and plaintiffs won three, resulting in a total of $172 million in damages. Four others resulted in hung juries and mistrials.J&J is appealing all the verdicts against it.Meanwhile, J&J has pulled back from marketing specifically to minority and overweight women. A 2015 presentation makes no mention of minorities, suggesting the brand “target adults, with a focus on men.”Plaintiffs’ lawyers and other advocates have become more vocal in criticizing the targeted marketing campaigns. In its most recent newsletter, the National Council of Negro Women, a women’s leadership group with about 30,000 members, drew attention to the issue with an essay penned by civil-rights lawyer Ben Crump, who is representing some Baby Powder plaintiffs.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCULVER CITY, Calif. — A 34-year-old professional sports gambler from Las Vegas won more than $110,000 on "Jeopardy!" on Tuesday, breaking the record for single-day cash winnings.The show said in a press release that James Holzhauer won the episode with a total of $110,914. The previous record of $77,000 was set by Roger Craig in 2010.AdvertisementSupported byletterA family practitioner writes that the exam can be performed by a familiar primary care doctor, not just a gynecologist.To the Editor:Re “When to Start With a Gynecologist” (You Asked column, nytimes.com, Jan. 10):Dr. Jen Gunter suggests that women should see a gynecologist for their first cervical cancer screening exam at 21. But most family physicians and family nurse-practitioners are also entirely comfortable performing this examination. When a young woman has been receiving all her routine health care from a primary care clinician for many years, they have usually established a high level of comfort and trust and have had ample opportunity not only to discuss sexual activity, sexually transmitted infections, contraception and other common gynecological concerns, but also to prepare for a first speculum examination.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Johnson & Johnson on Tuesday reported a first-quarter profit that exceeded Wall Street expectations on higher sales of its prescription medicines, including a double-digit increase for its psoriasis treatment Stelara, even as the company faces fierce competition for some of its other important drugs.The U.S. healthcare conglomerate said growth in its pharmaceuticals business was driven by volume rather than price hikes, and its shares rose more than 2 percent to $139.49.Sales of Stelara, which also treats Crohn's disease, jumped about 32 percent to $1.41 billion, fueling a 4 percent rise for the pharmaceutical business, which accounts for more than half of the company's total revenue. Double-digit increases for cancer drugs Darzalex and Imbruvica also contributed to the earnings beat.“We’re really seeing the strength in pharma sales drive top and bottom line growth," said John Ham, associate advisor at New England Investment and Retirement Group, which owns J&J shares. "We think growth in pharma sales not only in Asia but also in the United States will be a driver for the company going forward.”Excluding items, the company earned $2.10 per share, beating analysts' average estimates by 7 cents, according to IBES data from Refinitiv.J&J also tightened its full-year forecast for adjusted earnings to $8.53 to $8.63 per share from its prior range of $8.50 to $8.65.The company on a conference call said 800 sites have already been certified to treat patients with its new nasal spray depression treatment Spravato, which won U.S. approval last month."We believe that we're off to a very, very strong start with Spravato and that is going to be an important growth driver for us," said Jennifer Taubert, head of J&J's pharma unit.Sales of prostate cancer drug Zytiga, which is now facing competition from cheaper generic versions as well as from branded rival Xtandi from Pfizer Inc and Astellas Pharma, fell 19.6 percent.But the company said it now sees the overall sales decline it expects due to competition from generics and biosimilars in 2019 coming in at the lower end of its prior $3 billion to $3.5 billion forecast. Overall sales increased slightly to $20.02 billion, topping analyst estimates of $19.61 billion.Sales from the medical device business fell 4.6 percent to $6.46 billion, edging past Wall Street estimates of $6.44 billion. Consumer health sales declined 2.4 percent to $3.32 billion.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPARIS/LYON — A French court has ruled that Monsanto was liable for the sickness of a farmer who inhaled one of its weedkillers, in another legal setback for the Bayer-owned business over health claims.In the latest stage of a decade-long legal tussle, the appeals court in Lyon on Thursday found in favor of farmer Paul Francois' claim that Monsanto's Lasso weedkiller had made him sick and that the product's labeling had been inadequate.Francois, 55, says he suffered neurological problems, including memory loss, fainting and headaches, after accidentally inhaling Lasso in 2004 while working on his farm."Mr Francois justifiably concludes that the product, due to its inadequate labeling that did not respect applicable regulations, did not offer the level of safety he could legitimately expect," the court said in its ruling.The latest verdict, however, did not determine compensation for the farmer, which will now be considered by another court in Lyon.Francois is seeking about 1 million euros ($1.1 million) in damages.Bayer, which acquired Monsanto in a $63 billion deal last year, said it was considering its legal options, including an appeal before France's highest court.The German chemicals group added that crop-protection products "do not pose a risk for human health if they are used according to the terms of use set out in their regulatory approval".Mr Francois had won rulings against Monsanto in 2012 and 2015 before France's top court overturned the decisions and ordered the new hearing in Lyon."We are all happy to have won but it came at a heavy price," Francois told reporters in Paris."It's a big sigh of relief. It's been 12 years of fighting, 12 years during which I had to put my whole life on hold."Lasso was banned in France in 2007 after the product had been withdrawn in some other countries. It used a different active substance to glyphosate, the chemical contained in Monsanto's best-selling weedkiller Roundup and the target of lawsuits in the United States over alleged cancer links.The company has been found liable in two trials in California brought by cancer sufferers who have been awarded tens of millions of dollars in damages. Bayer is appealing against those rulings.The legal troubles surrounding glyphosate have contributed to Bayer losing about 30 billion euros in market value since last August. The group's chief executive on Thursday said it was "massively affected" by the litigation. After the announcement of the decision, Bayer's shares extended a fall to trade about 1.5 percent down before recovering some of the losses.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sam RobertsDr. Theodore M. Bayless, whose discoveries helped bring relief to lactose- and gluten-intolerant patients and others coping with the effects of intestinal disorders, died on Feb. 10 in Towson, Md. He was 87.The cause was cancer, his son Neal said.Studies by Dr. Bayless, who taught, conducted research and cared for patients at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine for a half-century, helped in the development of treatments for acute diarrheal diseases and for inflammatory bowel diseases, including ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease.“While still a young investigator, he made the landmark discovery of the role of lactase deficiency (a genetic defect in the intestinal enzyme that digests milk sugar) in the adverse reactions to milk experienced by hundreds of millions of people all around the globe,” Prof. David Sachar, a friend and colleague and emeritus chief of gastroenterology at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York, said in an email.He added, “His insights into this problem laid the foundations of the lactose-neutralization techniques (such as in Lactaid and many other products) that have revolutionized the dairy industry worldwide.”In 1987, Dr. Bayless received the Franklin Institute’s Corson Award for his research into the genetics behind lactase deficiency. That research resulted in the development of commercial products for people whose bodies rejected milk.His studies also demystified the mechanisms behind celiac disease, or gluten intolerance; provided insight into how genetics and family history lead to the recurrence of inflammatory bowel disease; and distinguished the symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease and irritable bowel syndrome, which may require different treatment.He also found that children whose growth was suppressed by inflammatory bowel disease could resume normal growth through aggressive treatment.Theodore Morris Bayless was born on April 14, 1931, in Atlantic City, the son of David and Fanny (Halpern) Bayless. He worked behind the lunch counter at his father’s pharmacy and sometimes accompanied his uncle, a doctor, on house calls.He graduated from Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Pa., in 1954, the same year he married his classmate, Janet (known as Jaye) Nides. She survives him. In addition to his son Neal, he is also survived by two other sons, Jeffrey and Andrew, and four grandchildren. He lived in Baltimore.Dr. Bayless earned his medical degree from Chicago Medical School in 1957 and completed his internship and residency in New York at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and what was then the Cornell Division of Bellevue Hospital.He joined the faculty of Johns Hopkins in 1964, becoming a professor of medicine in the division of gastroenterology and hepatology. He was director emeritus of the Meyerhoff Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center.Much of Dr. Bayless’s research focused on ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, which inflame the bowel and can cause repeated and potentially fatal attacks of diarrhea, constipation, abdominal pain, loss of appetite and weight. Each disease can also lead to arthritis, liver damage, skin lesions, eye damage and painful cankerlike sores in the mouth.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLA JOLLA, Calif. — Sydney Brenner, a Nobel Prize-winning biologist who helped decipher the genetic code, has died. He was 92.The Salk Institute for Biological Studies said Brenner died Friday in Singapore.Brenner shared the Nobel Prize in medicine in 2002 for his contribution to work unraveling how genes control cell division. He and two colleagues, John Sulston and Robert Horvitz, traced a roundworm known as C. elegans to determine how cells divide and create something new.AdvertisementLast week, the Modern Love podcast featured “You May Want to Marry My Husband,” a moving essay written by Amy Krouse Rosenthal shortly before she died of ovarian cancer.This week, the Modern Love podcast presents “My Wife Said You May Want to Marry Me,” an essay written by Ms. Rosenthal’s husband, Jason B. Rosenthal, a little over a year after her death.AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who underwent cancer surgery last month, was missing from the bench on Monday for the Supreme Court’s first arguments since the court returned from its four-week holiday break.Justice Ginsburg has suffered a number of health setbacks over the years but has never before missed an argument in her 25 years on the court.Kathleen Arberg, a court spokeswoman, said Justice Ginsburg was working from home.Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. announced his colleague’s absence at the start of Monday’s session, saying that “Justice Ginsburg is unable to be present today.” He added that she would take part in the court’s consideration of the day’s two cases based on the briefs submitted by the parties and transcripts of the arguments.Surgeons removed two nodules from Justice Ginsburg’s left lung on Dec. 21. According to the justice’s thoracic surgeon, Dr. Valerie W. Rusch, the nodules removed during surgery were found to be malignant, Ms. Arberg said at the time.After the surgery, “there was no evidence of any remaining disease,” Ms. Arberg said, adding: “Scans performed before surgery indicated no evidence of disease elsewhere in the body.”Justice Ginsburg, 85, is the senior member of the court’s four-member liberal wing. President Trump has appointed two new members to the Supreme Court, Justices Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh, moving it considerably to the right.Should he name Justice Ginsburg’s replacement, Republican appointees would outnumber Democratic ones six to three.Justice Ginsburg has been treated for cancer twice before, attributing her survival partly to the medical care she received at the National Institutes of Health.“Ever since my colorectal cancer in 1999, I have been followed by the N.I.H.,” she said in the 2013 interview. “That was very lucky for me because they detected my pancreatic cancer at a very early stage” in 2009.Doctors found the nodules removed last month during tests following a fall in November in which Justice Ginsburg fractured her ribs. She had broken her ribs once before, in 2012. In 2014, she underwent a heart procedure.She did not miss any arguments after the earlier procedures. She was also on the bench in 2010 on the day after the death of her husband, Martin D. Ginsburg.Justice Ginsburg has repeatedly vowed to stay on the court as long as her health holds and she stays mentally sharp. In 2013, she said she loved her work and intended to continue “as long as I can do the job full-steam, and that, at my age, is not predictable.”In 2004 and 2005, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist missed many arguments during his treatment for thyroid cancer, though he continued to participate in the court’s work. Chief Justice Rehnquist died in 2005.Justice Ginsburg is revered in liberal circles, with her many fans calling her Notorious R.B.G., a nod to the rapper Notorious B.I.G. The justice has embraced the connection. “We were both born and bred in Brooklyn, New York,” she likes to say.She was born in 1933, graduated from Cornell in 1954 and began law school at Harvard. After moving to New York with her husband, she transferred to Columbia, where she earned her law degree.She taught at Rutgers and Columbia and was a leading courtroom advocate of women’s rights before joining the court. As director of the Women’s Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union in the 1970s, she brought a series of cases before the court that helped establish constitutional protections against sex discrimination.AdvertisementSupported byAt WarIn this week’s newsletter, John Ismay recounts the memorial service held for Navy Chief Shannon Kent, who was killed by a suicide bomber at a restaurant in Manbij, Syria, last month.By John IsmayAt War is a newsletter about the experiences and costs of war. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox every Friday.On Feb. 8, thousands of mourners filled the United States Naval Academy’s chapel in Annapolis, Md., to pay their respects to Chief Petty Officer Shannon Kent, 35, who was killed by a suicide bomber at a restaurant in Manbij, Syria, last month, along with three other Americans. Kent was stationed at Fort Meade, Md., where she was assigned to Cryptologic Warfare Activity 66, a Navy unit that supports the National Security Agency and military special operations forces. She was supporting the latter at the time of her death.During the ceremony, a bugler played taps. The Navy hymn “Eternal Father” rang from the pipe organ. But the memorial service departed from most of those that the Academy chapel has hosted in the past — in more ways than one.Kent, who was killed on her fifth combat deployment, was honored by her fellow chief petty officers with what one of her friends and a fellow enlisted service member called a “sea of khaki” — per a request from Kent’s family, hundreds of sailors wore their tan-colored, short-sleeve service uniform, instead of the much more formal white or navy blue dress uniforms typically worn at a memorial service for a fallen sailor. In the Navy, the khaki uniforms signify an enlisted sailor’s rank as a chief (an E-7 or higher) and their transition to that of a leader and subject-matter expert in their field. Commissioned officers in attendance wore their khakis, too. Lt. Jeff Spindle, the chaplain conducting the service, wore his, as did Adm. John Richardson, the Navy’s chief of naval operations.Other than Kent’s former commanding officer, all of the speakers at her service were enlisted women and men. And, in the direct and forthright manner expected of Navy chiefs, they did not shy away from speaking their mind. “When Shannon applied for a psychology program, and it was announced that she had been accepted we were all so happy for her,” one of her eulogizers said. “And then all so angry when the Navy wouldn’t let her commission because she had cancer.”Kent, who earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees while on active duty, had survived an earlier battle with thyroid cancer and was denied an officer’s commission last year because of her cancer history — even though she was cancer-free at the time. She was well enough to deploy with special operations in Syria, speakers noted as they looked directly at Richardson. Instead of a commission, Richardson delivered a posthumous promotion to senior chief petty officer. Kent’s widower, Joe, was also presented with a Bronze Star for Shannon’s work with the special operations task force in Syria, the Purple Heart, a Meritorious Service Medal from the Navy and a Defense Meritorious Service Medal from the National Security Agency.The Navy cryptologists who spoke all emphasized the dangerous work their counterparts are doing in overseas wars and said that Kent’s death follows those of others in the line of duty. Senior Chief David McLendon, 30, known as Blake, was killed Sept. 21, 2010, in a helicopter crash while supporting a Navy SEAL team in Afghanistan. Chief Petty Officer Christian Pike, 31, died on March 13, 2013, from wounds suffered in combat in Afghanistan as a member of a SEAL support unit. Petty Officer 1st Class Steven Daugherty, 28, was assigned to a SEAL unit and died July 6, 2007, after his vehicle was hit by a roadside bomb in Iraq. And Petty Officer 1st Class Michael Strange, 25, died on Aug. 6, 2011, alongside his SEAL Team Six teammates when their helicopter was shot down in Afghanistan.As the pipe organ recessional turned to “God Bless America,” the mourners filed down the center aisle and out of the chapel. Just across the street, a large American flag hung between the ladders of two fire engines from Fort Meade. A few midshipmen from the academy paused to pay their respects on their walk between classes. Before they left the chapel, all of the chiefs in attendance were asked to remove one of the gold anchors pinned to their collars — their rank insignia — and deposit it in a tall glass vase held by one of their sisters-in-arms who stood facing them as they walked past. As the last of the chiefs filed out, the vase, a gift for Kent’s family, was nearly full.A Shotgun Under Her Bed, This Afghan Maverick Wants No Peace With Taliban: Laila Haidari’s popular Kabul restaurant, where men and women dine freely together, finances her drug treatment center. Now she has a new cause: fighting a peace deal with the Taliban.In Mattis’s Shadow, Acting Pentagon Chief Tries to Reassure NATO Allies: Patrick Shanahan, the acting defense secretary, is not seen as a counterweight to President Trump’s distrust of alliances.Covering the Lives of Veterans, Revered but Often Forgotten: I took the veterans affairs beat at the end of last year and quickly found that veterans — and those who care for them — are eager to share experiences and to engage.Congress Poised to Help Veterans Exposed to ‘Burn Pits’ Over Decades of War: One of the least understood ailments endured by the newest generation of veterans is related to exposure to toxic substances in Iraq and Afghanistan, especially from open-air trash fires.Walter B. Jones, 76, Dies; Republican Turned Against Iraq War: A staunch war supporter, he rebranded “french fries” as “freedom fries,” but then opposed the war and sought to atone for his earlier support.Trump’s Syria Withdrawal Order Forces Allies to Weigh Return of ISIS Detainees: The American military departure may have a silver lining: a long-awaited resolution for thousands of Islamic State detainees who have been held indefinitely in Syrian camps.We’d love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to atwar@nytimes.com. Or invite someone to subscribe through this link.AdvertisementSupported byYou AskedBy Jen GunterAt what age do you recommend girls start seeing an OB/GYN if they are not sexually active and have no plans to be in the near future? My daughter has a great relationship with her pediatrician, if that makes a difference. — M.M., NortheastCervical cancer screening starts at age 21, whether the young adult is sexually active or not. Annual chlamydia screening should begin as a teenager or young adult becomes sexually active.A screening visit concerning reproductive preventive health care is recommended between the ages of 13 and 15. Many pediatricians and family physicians are comfortable with this, so whom a teenager should see will vary depending on the circumstances. This visit is an opportunity to discuss any period concerns, such as bleeding patterns and pain, and safe sex. Vaccination for HPV can start at age 9, but most pediatricians and family physicians offer this vaccine. If the HPV vaccination is given between the ages of 9 and 14, only two doses are required versus three if the series is started after the 15th birthday.Regardless of whether your teenager has or hasn’t been sexually active, cervical cancer screening starts at the age of 21. It is a good idea to start seeing a woman’s health provider before that so a young woman can be comfortable with the person who will be doing what is likely her first pelvic exam.A woman’s first gynecologist visit should happen at the age of 21 for cervical cancer screening, however, any woman or teenager who is younger than 21 and is sexually active should be seeing a provider who is comfortable with gynecologic care for annual chlamydia screening. Annual chlamydia screening is recommended for sexually active women age 24 and younger.  Screening for other sexually transmitted infections may also be needed. Urine screening is very effective, so taking a pelvic exam out of the equation often makes this screening easier for many women regardless of age.Other reasons to see an OB/GYN before the age of 21 include irregular periods, heavy periods (soaking onto clothes is a good proxy for being heavy), or period pain that is interfering with daily activities despite the use of over the counter pain medications, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen.[Have a question about women’s health? Ask Dr. Gunter yourself.] For a young woman who has never had a pelvic exam, I recommend a “get to know you” visit with an OB/GYN before her visit for cervical cancer screening. This is a good time to develop a rapport without the worry of an exam looming in the background. A good doctor should be able to show your daughter the tools he or she uses during the exam, talk to her about the importance of cervical cancer screening and screening for S.T.I.s, and ease any concerns she has about the exam.If a teenager or woman has been using tampons or a menstrual cup, then she may have a greater degree of comfort with the exam, but everyone is different. As an expert in pain with sex, I hear from many women who were traumatized as young women by painful exams. A pelvic exam shouldn’t be painful; there may be pressure or it may feel “weird,” especially to a young woman who has never used a tampon or menstrual cup, but it should not hurt. Tell your daughter that if a pelvic exam is painful, she should let the doctor know and ask them to stop.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Charles Gross, a longtime Princeton professor of neuroscience and husband to author Joyce Carol Oates, has died. He was 83.Oates said in an email Gross died from cancer Saturday in Oakland, California.She shared an image of him hiking in a lush green forest on Twitter and remembered him as her "brilliant, beautiful, beloved husband."Gross spent 43 years on the faculty of Princeton's psychology department where the university credited him with revolutionizing understanding of sensory processing and pattern recognition. Princeton called his work "foundational to the field of cognitive neuroscience" when he retired in 2013.Oates, who chronicled her grief over her first husband's death in 2011's "A Widow's Story," wed Gross in 2009. Oates taught creative writing at Princeton until 2014.AdvertisementSupported byOn March 25-26, the Food and Drug Administration is holding a two-day conference as it takes another look at breast implants because of renewed safety concerns. By Denise Grady and Roni Caryn RabinReports from thousands of women that breast implants are causing problems like debilitating joint pain and fatigue, claims long dismissed by the medical profession, are receiving new attention from the Food and Drug Administration and researchers.This may be a long-awaited moment of validation for tens of thousands of women who have been brushed off as neurotic, looking to cash in on lawsuits or just victims of chance who coincidentally became ill while having implants. The F.D.A. has begun to re-examine questions about implant safety that have long been disputed by doctors and implant manufacturers, and that most consumers thought had been resolved a decade or so ago. Millions of women have implants, which are silicone sacs filled with either salt water or silicone gel, used to enlarge the breasts cosmetically or to rebuild them after a mastectomy for breast cancer.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]On Tuesday, the agency warned two makers of breast implants that they had failed to conduct adequate long-term studies of the devices’ effects on women’s health. Those studies were mandated as a condition of approving the implants, and the agency cautioned that the devices could be taken off the market if the research wasn’t properly carried out. The agency also issued a statement on Friday that applied to a broad array of medical devices, acknowledging that implanted devices may make some people sick. “A growing body of evidence suggests that a small number of patients may have biological responses to certain types of materials in implantable or insertable devices,” the agency said. Those effects can include “inflammatory reactions and tissue changes causing pain and other symptoms that may interfere with their quality of life.”The F.D.A. said it was gathering information to fill information gaps in the science “to further our understanding of medical device materials and improve the safety of devices for patients.” Silicone, used in implants, is one of the materials under scrutiny.And next week, the agency will hold a two-day meeting about breast implants, hearing from researchers, patient advocacy groups and manufacturers. One problem to be discussed is an uncommon cancer of the immune system called anaplastic large cell lymphoma, which has been detected so far in 457 women with breast implants, according to the F.D.A. Removing the implants usually eliminates the disease, but some women have also needed chemotherapy, and 17 deaths from the cancer have been reported worldwide.Nearly all the lymphoma cases have occurred in women who had implants with a textured surface, rather than a smooth one. Textured implants made by Allergan, a major manufacturer, were taken off the market in Europe in December. Smooth implants are used more often than textured ones in the United States.Another focus of the conference will be “breast implant illness,” which encompasses disorders that may involve the immune system and can cause muscle pain, fatigue, weakness, cognitive difficulties and other debilitating symptoms. Some ailments fall into a category called connective tissue disease, which includes lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and other serious autoimmune diseases.The F.D.A. website says the agency “has not detected any association between silicone gel-filled breast implants and connective tissue disease.” But it adds, “In order to rule out these and other complications, studies would need to be larger and longer than these conducted so far.”The new warnings are of potential concern to millions of women with implants. About 400,000 women in the United States get breast implants every year, including 300,000 for cosmetic reasons and 100,000 for reconstruction after mastectomies performed to treat or prevent breast cancer. Worldwide, about 10 million women have breast implants.The F.D.A.’s new focus on implants is a testament to the power of patient activism in the age of social media, as sick women frustrated by their doctors’ lack of answers sought information online, found other patients with similar complaints and banded together to demand regulatory action. One Facebook group has nearly 70,000 members, according to its founder, Nicole Daruda, a Vancouver Island woman who felt well when she got implants in 2005 for reconstruction after cancer surgery, but soon became so ill she had to stop working.Ms. Daruda had them removed in 2013, and said most, but not all, of her symptoms have lessened.Another patient activist, Jamee Cook, now 41, had implant surgery for cosmetic reasons when she was 21. Over the next few years she developed so many health problems, including fatigue, memory lapses, migraines and numbness in her hands, that she had to quit her job as a paramedic.After having the implants removed in 2015, she said, her health has improved. Though she still has some bad days, Ms. Cook said, “It’s been like a 180.”Silicone-filled breast implants were first marketed in the United States in the 1960s. Over the next few decades, reports of illness emerged. In 1992, silicone implants were banned, except for reconstruction after mastectomy or to replace a previous implant, and then only in clinical trials.A flood of lawsuits followed.Studies conducted afterward generally found no link to connective tissue disease, but a few did suggest a connection. In 1999, the Institute of Medicine, then part of the National Academy of Sciences, concluded that overall, there was no evidence that breast implants caused connective tissue disease, cancer, immune disorders or other ailments.In 2006, silicone implants came back on the market. But manufacturers were required to follow large numbers of women for seven to 10 years, as a condition for F.D.A. approval. Deficiencies in the studies have now prompted the agency to send warning letters to two of the four companies approved to market breast implants in the United States.One warning letter, sent to the manufacturer Sientra, of Santa Barbara, Calif. on Tuesday, said the company had not kept enough patients in its study of an implant approved in 2012, and warned that if the follow-up monitoring did not improve, the agency could withdraw approval of the implant, effectively taking it off the market. Rosalyn d’Incelli, vice president of clinical and medical affairs for Sientra, said the company tries to retain patients in follow-up studies by compensating them, contacting them several times a year through email, phone calls, letters and postcards, and transferring them to doctors in more convenient locations. But she said that patients’ work obligations, child care, lack of transportation and other issues often present obstacles.“We are aware of and take this matter seriously,” Ms. D’Incelli said, adding that the company will respond to the F.D.A. about corrective measures it plans to take. “Patient safety, ensuring long-term safety and effectiveness of our devices and complying with F.D.A.’s requirements are our highest priority.” Its stock price dropped a little more than four percent on the F.D.A. news. Last September, the Securities and Exchange Commission accused its former chief executive, Hani Zeini, of concealing damaging information about the manufacturer of its implants before closing a $60 million stock offering in 2015. The Brazilian manufacturer had had a certificate of compliance required for selling in the European Union suspended. Sientra said its issue with the S.E.C. had been resolved.The other letter went to Mentor Worldwide, owned by Johnson & Johnson and based in Irvine, Calif. The F.D.A. said the company had not enrolled enough patients in a study of its MemoryShape implant, approved in 2013, and also threatened to rescind approval for the product. Withdrawing approval for a medical device is time-consuming and rarely occurs. Mindy Tinsley, a spokeswoman for Mentor, said the company was disappointed by the F.D.A.'s decision to issue a warning letter "despite our good faith efforts to address post-approval study requirements." She said Mentor notified the FDA last year that it would fall short of study enrollment targets because of changes in consumer preferences, but did not hear back. J&J’s stock remained unaffected on Tuesday. According to the F.D.A., the other two manufacturers whose breast implants are approved in the United States are Allergan and Ideal Implant, which did not receive warning letters on Tuesday. But their implants have also drawn some illness-related complaints from women. Plastic surgeons and implant manufacturers often say breast implants are the most intensely studied of all medical devices. But critics and patient advocates say most studies done to date are flawed.“When plastic surgeons tell women that ‘this is the most studied medical device in the world,’ women assume that means they are proven safe,” said Diana Zuckerman, president of the National Center for Health Research in Washington, D.C., who has been advising advocates for patients with implant-related illness. But, “we still don’t know what percentage of women become seriously ill from their breast implants. We still don’t know why some women get sick right away, some get sick years later and some never get sick.”Dr. Zuckerman, trained in psychology and epidemiology, will speak at the F.D.A. meeting next week. She wrote a 40-page analysis of breast implant studies, and found that most had not tracked long-term outcomes, or had lost too many participants. In addition, she said, the studies focused only on diseases with specific diagnoses, while ignoring symptoms like joint pain and chronic fatigue. And they were generally too small to detect rare diseases, and were funded by implant manufacturers or plastic surgery associations that had a stake in the outcomes.Newer studies looking at long-term outcomes have found disproportionately high rates of some uncommon chronic diseases among women with implants, though these studies show only associations and do not prove a cause-and-effect relationship.Plastic surgeons at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston who looked at the long term outcomes of 99,993 women with silicone implants reported finding they had six, seven and eight times the normal population rates of rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma (a connective tissue disease) and Sjogren syndrome (an autoimmune disorder), all of which are relatively rare diseases.An author of the study, Dr. Mark Clemens, cautioned that it did not prove cause and effect, and said in an interview, “The overarching message is that breast implants are reasonably safe and have high patient satisfaction, but also have complications that patients should be made aware of.”Critics said the study, published in Annals of Surgery in September, did not adjust for underlying differences between women with and without implants, and that the data, drawn from the F.D.A.’s own database, was flawed because of high dropout rates. “All the evidence we have to date is that implants are safe,” said Dr. Amy S. Colwell, a plastic surgeon at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston who wrote an editorial criticizing the study, and who is a consultant for Allergan, an implant manufacturer.An Israeli study published in December that was based on a health insurer’s medical records, compared 24,651 women with silicone breast implants to 98,602 similar women without implants, and found that those with implants had a 22 percent increase in the risk of having any auto-immune or rheumatic disorder. It also found higher rates of Sjogrens, scleroderma and rheumatoid arthritis, as well as other illnesses.“Implants are not so innocent as presented,” said Dr. Howard Amital, a rheumatologist who was the study’s senior author. Though he acknowledged the study does not prove a causal relationship, he said that the association between implants and the disorders “is highly indicative.” AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFRANKFURT — One of Bayer's largest shareholders tore into the company's management on Wednesday for underestimating the legal risks of its takeover of Monsanto, setting the stage for a fiery annual general meeting after a 30 percent plunge in the shares. Bayer has seen about 30 billion euros ($34 billion) wiped off its market value since August, when a U.S. jury found Bayer liable because Monsanto had not warned of weedkiller Roundup's alleged cancer risks. It suffered a similar courtroom defeat last month."It's quite drastic when a takeover triggers such value destruction and reputational damage so quickly. There can be no talk of a successful takeover any more," Ingo Speich, the head of sustainability and corporate governance at Deka Investment, told Reuters. He will be among the shareholders to speak at the April 26 annual general meeting (AGM)."What's startling is that things have effectively moved beyond management's control because we're now at a point where the decisions over future development are made in court rooms," he said, adding Bayer had clearly underestimated the risks. With a holding of about 1 percent, Deka says it is Bayer's 10th-largest shareholder overall, and the second-largest German one after DWS.Major shareholder advisory firms Institutional Shareholder Services (ISS) and Glass Lewis last week recommended investors not to give the executive board their seal of approval at the AGM. Glass Lewis also advised against a vote of approval for the non-executive supervisory board. A shareholder vote to ratify boards' actions features prominently at every German AGM. Though largely symbolic, as it has no bearing on management liability, it is seen as a key gauge of shareholder sentiment.Among shareholders that have vowed to deny top Bayer executives their vote of confidence is the former head of DWS, Christian Strenger. Deka's Speich declined to disclose how Deka would vote.Company filings showed this week that Bayer's supervisory board sought law firm Linklaters' expert opinion for reassurance that the management board had complied with its duties when acquiring Monsanto for $63 billion last year.The supervisory board in Germany's two-tier corporate board system has to sign off on larger transactions. Bayer's non-executive Chairman Werner Wenning was a driving force of the Monsanto deal, according to sources familiar with the matter.Bayer is appealing, or has vowed to appeal, the two jury verdicts, but more than 11,000 plaintiffs are seeking damages.The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the European Chemicals Agency and other regulators across the globe have found that glyphosate, the active ingredient in Roundup, is not likely carcinogenic to humans.However, the World Health Organization's cancer arm in 2015 reached a different conclusion, classifying glyphosate as "probably carcinogenic to humans."Speich said Bayer could now be vulnerable to attacks from activist shareholders who might seek to break it up, although the "bitter pill" of litigation risks might deter them for now. AdvertisementSupported byyou askedBy Jen Gunter, M.D.It seems to me that my periods have gotten heavier and more painful now that I’m in my early 40s. Am I crazy? If true, is this a cause for concern?— Jess from N.Y.C.Your observation may be correct. Periods can get heavier and more painful for some women after the age of 40. Sometimes it is a nuisance and sometimes it is a cause for concern.[Have a question about women’s health? Ask Dr. Gunter yourself.] Heavy menstrual bleeding, medically-speaking, is losing more than 80 milliliters of blood in a period — that’s about 5 and a half tablespoons. (I know, a normal period seems like a lot more blood than that!) That definition is really only useful for research purposes. In practical terms, heavy menstrual bleeding is a volume that affects your quality of life.Think you’re experiencing heavy menstrual bleeding? Consider if you experience any of the following: Blood leaking onto clothes or bedsheets.Needing to change a pad or tampon every three hours or less. Using 21 pads or tampons per cycle.Expelling clots more than an inch in diameter.Needing to get up often at night to change pads or tampons.Heavy periods can simply be heavy or they may be associated with increased cramping.As women transition into perimenopause, (this typically starts after the age of 40), there can be subtle changes in bleeding.Irregular ovulation during perimenopause can lead to heavy irregular periods. Other medical conditions, such as polycystic ovarian syndrome can also cause periods that are irregular and heavier than usual. Blood thinners, such as coumadin, and copper I.U.D.s can also cause heavier periods for some women.Other causes of heavy bleeding are structurally related to the uterus. Some of the more common ones include the following:Adenomyosis: A condition where the lining of the uterus grows into the muscle of the uterus. This is typically associated with painful periods.Fibroids: Benign tumors in the uterus.Cesarean section scar: Some data suggests this can affect the muscle around the scar, which may impact bleeding.AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen ZraickKey West, the sunny city at the southernmost tip of Florida, voted this week to ban the sale of sunscreen containing chemicals believed to harm coral reefs.The law’s supporters see it as a crucial step toward protecting the great treasure of the Florida Keys: the world’s third-largest barrier reef ecosystem, which runs nearly 150 miles, hosts thousands of species of marine life, and attracts divers and snorkelers from around the globe.The measure, which the City Commission approved Tuesday in a 6-to-1 vote, will ban sales of sunscreens containing the chemicals oxybenzone and octinoxate. The legislation will go into effect on Jan. 1, 2021.“Our coral has been under attack by a number of stressors,” Mayor Teri Johnston said. “We just thought if there was one thing we could do, to take one of the stressors away, it was our responsibility to do so.”Over the last year, the state of Hawaii and the Western Pacific nation of Palau have also restricted sunscreen sales to protect the otherworldly coral reefs. (Parts of Mexico also ban non-biodegradable sunscreen.) Hawaii’s law bans the same chemicals as Key West’s, and takes effect on the same date. In Palau, 10 chemicals are prohibited, a list that could grow.Ms. Johnston said that people with medical prescriptions would be exempt from the ban, and that the first offense would be met with a warning. The second offense would incur fines that are still to be determined.She added that the reef was crucial to both the environment and the tourism-driven local economy.The National Park Service says that 4,000 to 6,000 tons of sunscreen enter reef areas each year, and studies have found that the chemicals they contain can damage coral reefs, contributing to “bleaching” and death.Coral reefs also face grave danger from global warming, but the bill’s supporters argue that sunscreen is easily controlled by individuals. The park service and environmental groups recommend wearing protective clothing and opting for sunscreens that are labeled eco-friendly. Hawaii published a list of sunscreens considered to be “reef safe.”But some dermatologists and trade groups have opposed the bans, arguing that more research is necessary and that banning sunscreen could lead to higher skin cancer rates. Sunscreen manufacturers have also disputed the claims about the dangers to coral reefs.In July, an article in the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology reviewed the available research and concluded that further investigation was needed. In a news release about the paper, the American Academy of Dermatology reiterated that skin cancer was the most common cancer in the United States, and that people should protect themselves with sunscreen and protective clothing, and by staying out of the sun.Ms. Johnston said there were many sunscreens available without those two ingredients. She said she hoped that the ban would push bigger manufacturers to make and market more eco-friendly sunscreens.She added that the local government, in coordination with local nonprofits like Reef Relief, would embark on a public education campaign before the law took effect.AdvertisementSupported bymatterNASA scientists compared the astronaut to his earthbound twin, Mark. The results hint at what humans will have to endure on long journeys through space. By Carl ZimmerFor 340 days, Scott Kelly circled the Earth aboard the International Space Station, gathering data about himself.He drew blood from his arms. He saved his urine. He played computer games to test his memory and reaction speed. He measured the shape of his eyes.Two hundred and forty miles below, Mr. Kelly’s twin brother, Mark, who also served as an astronaut, carried out identical tests. Now, a comparison of these two men has provided a unique opportunity to learn what happens to the human body in space — down to the molecular level. On Thursday, just over three years after Mr. Kelly, 55, returned to Earth, NASA researchers reported that his body experienced a vast number of changes while in orbit. DNA mutated in some of his cells. His immune system produced a host of new signals. His microbiome gained new species of bacteria. [Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]Many of these biological changes seemed harmless, disappearing after he returned to Earth. But others — including genetic mutations and, after his return, declines in cognitive test scores — did not correct themselves, provoking concern among scientists.Some considered the risks manageable, while others wondered whether it would ever be safe for astronauts to take long journeys to Mars or beyond. Final answers will depend on studies of still more astronauts.“I believe it’s the most comprehensive assessment of human beings to date,” said Dr. Eric Topol, director of the Scripps Research Translational Institute, who was not involved in the study. “I don’t know that there’s been anything close to this.”Although astronauts have been carried aloft for almost six decades, there’s much about life in space that scientists still don’t understand. With investigations like the NASA Twins Study, published in the journal Science, the agency hopes to answer some of the questions before sending astronauts on longer flights.In 2012, NASA picked Mr. Kelly to join the Russian cosmonaut Mikhail Kornienko aboard the space station for a yearlong examination of the challenges of space travel, twice as long as previous studies. In the run-up to the mission’s announcement, Mr. Kelly asked officials if they had any plans to compare him to his twin. “We have these two guys who are genetically identical,” Mr. Kelly recalled telling them. “They’d make for an interesting experiment.”Officials had no such plans, but soon decided to take him up on the offer. Mark Kelly agreed, and the NASA Twins Study was born. (Mark Kelly, who retired from NASA in 2011 and is the husband of former Representative Gabrielle Giffords, is running for John McCain’s Senate seat in Arizona.)By comparing the brothers, NASA hoped to better understand the changes that Scott Kelly experienced during his mission.“The fact that they’re twins really narrows down the alternatives,” said Susan Bailey, a cancer biologist at Colorado State University and a co-author of the new study. “We can say that, as best as we can tell, these changes are due to spaceflight.”Ten research teams designed experiments for the twins; they are likely to bring an avalanche of research. But to Mr. Kelly, the experience didn’t feel very different from previous missions. Drawing his own blood in zero gravity, for example, was a familiar routine. “I’ve had a couple spills in my time,” Mr. Kelly said. “You just reach out and grab the blobs of blood.”By many measures, the scientists eventually found, Mr. Kelly changed about as much as astronauts who stayed on the space station for only six months. Eventually the pace of biological change slowed, suggesting that perhaps the human body reaches a new equilibrium in space.But Mr. Kelly’s body was also altered in some surprising ways.Dr. Bailey studied special sections of his DNA called telomeres, which sit at the end of chromosomes, protecting them from deterioration. As people age, their telomeres tend to get shorter. Stress — such as radiation or pollution — may hasten aging by fraying telomeres even faster than usual.Strangely, the average length of Mr. Kelly’s telomeres increased in space, rather than decreasing, as if his cells were becoming more youthful. Regular exercise and a healthy diet might be part of the reason. But going to space also might have awakened a quiet population of stem cells in Mr. Kelly’s body, Dr. Bailey said. His cells might not have grown longer telomeres, in other words. Instead, perhaps his body manufactured a new supply of young cells with longer telomeres.Going to space also appeared to trigger a genetic shift in Mr. Kelly. Thousands of genes that were once quiet increased their activity — genes that remained quiet in Mark Kelly’s body back on Earth. The longer Scott Kelly stayed aloft, the greater the number of genes becoming active.Some of the awakened genes are known to encode proteins that help fix damaged DNA. That would make sense, given that radiation levels in the International Space Station are higher than on Earth. Christopher Mason, a geneticist at Weill Cornell Medicine in New York, estimated that Mr. Kelly was exposed to 48 times more radiation than the average exposure on Earth over the course of a year. His cells might have been busy repairing radiation injury.A number of other activated genes, however, play roles in the immune system. What exactly triggers those changes isn’t clear. It may be the overall stress of life in the space station provokes an immune response. But recent studies have also shown that latent viruses can awaken in astronauts. Or maybe it’s that the immune system, which never evolved for survival in space, simply gets confused.“Is it good or bad? We just know it’s more,” Dr. Mason, a co-author of the new study, said of the immune activity. “To know for sure, we’d need more astronauts.”Mr. Kelly’s return to Earth on March 1, 2016, proved to be one of the biggest moments — biologically speaking — of the whole mission. His body showed signs of intense stress, and his immune system was in high gear. Michael Snyder, a geneticist at Stanford University and co-author of the research, cautioned that this response might not be typical. “Maybe he got a viral infection,” he speculated. “This is why you want to see it in more people.”Despite that shock, Mr. Kelly’s body mostly returned to preflight condition. Some species of bacteria that thrived in his gut while he was in space, for example, became rare again on his landing.The strange lengthening of Mr. Kelly’s telomeres disappeared after less than 48 hours on Earth. In fact, Dr. Bailey and her colleagues started finding many cells with telomeres that were shorter than before Mr. Kelly went to space.“People have asked me, ‘Well, is going to space the fountain of youth?’” said Dr. Bailey. “I don’t think so. If it is, you’re going to have to stay up there forever.”Some aspects of Mr. Kelly’s biology didn’t return to the preflight norm.Six months after he came back to Earth, 8.7 percent of his genes were still behaving in an altered way. Judging from the small size of this shift, Dr. Snyder described the change as modest.The researchers also found that Mr. Kelly didn’t do as well on his return on cognitive exams. “He got slower and less accurate on virtually all of the tests,” said Dr. Mathias Basner, a cognitive scientist at the University of Pennsylvania.It’s possible that some biological change was to blame. But Dr. Basner noted that Mr. Kelly also faced a lot of demands back on Earth, including a busy schedule of television interviews and public speaking.And on an unconscious level, he may no longer have been pushing himself. “I mean, he basically retired the moment he hit the ground, and so perhaps he just wasn’t as motivated any longer,” Dr. Basner said.In his 2017 memoir, “Endurance,” Mr. Kelly describes struggling after his return with pain, sleeping troubles and other woes. One night he felt as if he was “fighting through quicksand,” he wrote.In an interview, Mr. Kelly speculated those difficulties might be to blame for his cognitive scores. “It’s hard to concentrate when you’re not feeling well,” he said.Another enduring change, scientists found, was a collection of genetic mutations that Mr. Kelly gained in space. “We see them appear in flight, and then they persisted afterward,” Dr. Mason said.Sometimes radiation triggers a type of mutation that makes cells prone to gain still more mutations as they divide. Eventually, the cells may start growing uncontrollably — “taking steps on the road to cancer,” Dr. Bailey said.Peter Campbell, a cancer biologist at the Wellcome Sanger Institute in Britain who was not involved in the new study, said scientists can’t predict what the extra mutations will mean for Mr. Kelly’s health. “It is hard to be sure, but I believe those sorts of numbers would be associated with a moderate increase in cancer risk,” he said.These two lingering changes — in Mr. Kelly’s cognition and DNA — left a number of experts concerned about the risks of a trip to Mars, which could take a year.Gary Strangman, a psychologist at Harvard Medical School, said that a decrease in speed and accuracy “could potentially have serious consequences on long-duration missions.”After a grueling journey to the red planet, astronauts would probably need to take quick, accurate actions as they landed.“If you had a period of slower cognitive processing speed and difficulty with balance and eye-head coordination, those behaviors would be at risk,” said Rachael Seidler, a cognitive neuroscientist at the University of Florida.A heavy load of genetic mutations would not present immediate dangers to astronauts on their missions, but it might raise their lifelong risks of cancer. Dr. Mason estimated that a mission to Mars would expose an astronaut to eight times more radiation than Mr. Kelly experienced.“Every effort will need to be made to limit exposure to astronauts during periods of prolonged space travel,” said Charles Swanton, a cancer biologist at the Francis Crick Institute in Britain who was not involved in the new study.Dr. Topol, of the Scripps institute, found the implications of Mr. Kelly’s experience to be grim.“The main conclusion I got from this paper, based on all the objective data, is why would anybody want to go to Mars or be in space?” he said. “Because this is really scary.”Jerry Shay, a cell biologist at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, was much more optimistic. He held out hope for countermeasures that would protect astronauts.Already he and his colleagues, for example, are testing drugs to trigger cells to fix DNA damaged by radiation. “I think all these problems are solvable,” Dr. Shay said.NASA has begun sifting through all these results to help plan the next round of missions to the International Space Station.“It won’t be a replication of what you saw in the Twins Study,” said Jennifer Fogarty, the chief scientist at NASA’s Human Research Program.“We’re going to learn from that, and we’re going to be smarter about the questions we ask. There’s a lot of fascinating stuff to go measure. It’s just not clear what it means.”Dr. Bailey, for her part, plans to keep on studying Mr. Kelly’s baffling telomeres. Solving that mystery might shed light on ordinary aging and the diseases it brings.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDES MOINES, Iowa — An Iowa Republican senator is expressing irritation at what he calls "idiotic" comments by President Donald Trump about wind energy.Trump, at the National Republican Congressional Committee's annual spring dinner Tuesday night, said noise from wind turbines causes cancer.Sen. Chuck Grassley said in a conference call with reporters Wednesday that the comments "were first of all idiotic and it doesn't show much respect for Chuck Grassley as the grandfather of the wind energy tax credit."Grassley was instrumental in approving a federal tax credit 26 years ago that has spurred wind energy development.AdvertisementSupported byletterA “Jeopardy!” devotee writes of her “heavy heart” upon hearing of the host’s cancer diagnosis.To the Editor:Re “Host of ‘Jeopardy!’ Says He Has Pancreatic Cancer” (news article, March 7):As a longtime “Jeopardy!” devotee (and enthusiastic volunteer “Alex” at college trivia events), I was left with a heavy heart upon hearing the news of Alex Trebek’s illness. His poignant video announcement was in keeping with the charm, folksiness, good humor and decency that have characterized his 35 years as host.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSINGAPORE — Singapore intercepted a second shipping container packed full of pangolin scales destined for Vietnam in less than a week, authorities said on Wednesday, a combined haul that set a new record for the global transit hub.The seizure of 12.7 tonnes of scales, worth an estimated $38 million, follows last week's haul of 12.9 tonnes. The scales in that seizure, the biggest of its kind worldwide in five years, were said to have come from about 17,000 pangolins. "The container was declared to have contained cassia seeds," Singapore's National Parks Board, Customs and Immigration and Checkpoints Authority said in a joint statement, adding that the shipment came from Nigeria. The authorities said the scales in this week's seizure came from two species, equivalent to around 21,000 pangolins, the world's most poached animal.Timothy Ray Brown, the first person to be cured of H.I.V., and Dr. Ravindra Gupta, a virologist, speak on the second patient who appears to have been cured of an H.I.V. infection. That patient has chosen to remain anonymous.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSYDNEY — Australia's political parties are campaigning in a general election set for May 18, with the fight focused on tax cuts, climate change and social programmes.Below are party policies taken mainly from campaign programmes and pre-election announcements:TAX CUTSRuling Liberal-National coalition:* Proposed total tax cuts of A$158 billion ($112.5 billion) over the period to 2029/30, in addition to A$144 billion in tax cuts passed by parliament last year. Most of the new tax cuts would take effect after 2022, when the next election is due.* Most of the early personal income tax cuts would benefit low and middle-income earners. Tax rebate for middle-income earners to double in current financial year. Subsequent tax concessions would benefit wealthier Australians. * Top threshold for 19 percent tax bracket rises to A$45,000 in 2022/23 from A$41,000 currently. From 2024/25, the 32.5 percent marginal tax rate would be reduced to 30 percent, and apply to income between A$45,000 and A$200,000.Opposition Labor: * Labour has promised to match the coalition's planned tax cuts for workers earning between A$48,000-A$126,000 a year, but also pledged a bigger rebate for people earning less than A$45,000. No changes to current tax brackets.CLIMATE CHANGE* The ruling coalition and opposition Labor are committed to the Paris Accord that requires member states to reduce emissions by 26 percent from 2005 levels.* The biggest differences centre on how much electricity must be generated by renewables. The coalition has a target of 26 percent, while Labor proposes a minimum of 45 percent. Labor also says half of all new cars will be electric by 2030.* The coalition has been divided over energy policy and climate change and remains a strong backer of traditional energy sources. The tensions over energy policy were a catalyst for Malcolm Turnbull's ouster as prime minister in August.HEALTHCARE AND WELFARELiberal-National coalition:* Proposed to spend more than A$80 billion on the public healthcare system in 2019/20.* Access to cheaper medicines for cancer patients. * Proposed A$725 million investment in residential care for elderly Australians.Labor:* Promises to outspend the coalition on healthcare spending, including more than A$2 billion to expand free cancer treatment.* Proposes to increase the minimum wage, but has not given specific details. The party also pledges to raise pay for people who work on weekends and public holidays.EDUCATIONLiberal-National coalition:* The coalition promises record spending on education over the next decade.Labor:* The party pledges to outspend the government but has not given specific figures. It also plans to subsidise pre-school for children for two years.DEFENCEThe coalition and Labor have pledged to spend 2 percent of the country's gross domestic product (GDP) on defence.REFUGEES* The coalition and Labor will keep the current policy of holding refugees who arrive by boat at two remote Pacific detention facilities. AdvertisementSupported byThe U.S. is overdue to establish an institute devoted to research on the top cause of poor health.By Joon Yun, David A. Kessler and Dan GlickmanDr. Yun, Dr. Kessler and Mr. Glickman have served to improve the nation’s health as leaders in government, academia and the nonprofit sector.Poor nutrition is a leading cause of poor health and spiraling health care spending. Research from the Tufts Friedman School suggests that poor eating causes nearly 1,000 deaths each day in the United States from heart disease, stroke or diabetes. In 2016, the direct and indirect costs of chronic diseases as a result of obesity were $1.72 trillion — almost 10 percent of the nation’s gross domestic product. Poor eating also contributes to disparities in well-being, especially among children: a vicious cycle of bad health, lost productivity, increased health costs and poverty. Poor nutrition and obesity are also a major threat to military readiness. A recent report from Mission: Readiness, a group of more than 700 retired admirals and generals, noted that obesity is the leading medical disqualifier that prevents otherwise qualified Americans from joining the military.Yet many of the most fundamental questions about foods and health — especially their impact on the economy and the military — remain unanswered. There is also tremendous confusion about what constitutes a healthy diet. Despite the urgency of these questions, the sum of research funding for nutritional research across all federal agencies — like the agriculture department, Health and Human Services and Department Defense — is only about $1.5 billion annually. To put this into perspective, national spending on candy purchases is about $40 billion per year. That is why our country needs an institute devoted to research on the top cause of poor health. We would call it the National Institute of Nutrition, and it would be part of the National Institutes of Health. The institute will facilitate and help coordinate incisive research into nutrients, foods and their relationships to better health. Some examples of its focus would include: How to leverage food and nutrition policy and public-private partnerships in a “food is medicine” effort to reduce health care costs.Optimal nutrition for military readiness.Optimal nutrition for treatment of battlefield consequences, including bodily injuries, brain injuries and post-traumatic stress.Relationships between the gut microbiome and health.Personalized nutrition based on life stage, metabolism, health state, health goals and genetics.Health and metabolic effects of major food groups for which effects remain unclear or controversial, such as cheese, yogurt, whole-fat milk, unprocessed red meat, coconut oil, fermented foods, organic foods and more.Optimal diets for weight loss and weight maintenance.Optimal diets to prevent and treat Type 2 diabetes and pre-diabetes.Optimal diets for cancer, both to reduce side effects of chemotherapy and radiation and also to directly target the cancer.Health effect of trace bioactives and phenolics, like those in extra-virgin olive oil, cocoa, green tea, coffee, red wine, blueberries and more.Effective behavior change and systems approaches for healthier eating.Effective approaches to reduce dietary and health disparities.Effects of foods on brain and mental health, from the developing brain in infants and children to protecting against memory loss, dementia and depression later in life.Effects of foods on allergies and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases.Coordinated new science for translation into national dietary guidelines and policies, such as the Dietary Guidelines for Americans.Discoveries in these areas will help bring down health care costs and recover productivity loss as a result of diet-related diseases like obesity, diabetes, heart disease, many cancers and more. They will also benefit our military readiness, including treatment of injuries. A new nutrition institute will not include regulatory or enforcement functions. Those will remain at the Food and Drug Administration and Department of Agriculture. As the convening body for research in the country, the National Institute of Nutrition would encourage the participation of a large group of stakeholders providing important input into the science of nutrition.There are numerous precedents for creating a nutrition research institute at the N.I.H., which was created by an act of Congress in 1930. Several new institutes have been added there in the years since: For example, in 1937, Congress passed legislation to add a new National Cancer Institute. Ideally, Congress would draft and pass a bill to create and fund a nutrition institute.Although their existence and benefits today are obvious in retrospect, we did not always have— and thus needed to create — institutions such as the Institutes of Health and F.D.A. But their contributions have far surpassed our imagination. The N.I.H.’s original founding vision was to detect cholera and yellow fever. Yet, it began to help train young physicians and now supports cutting-edge research that helps treat and cure many types of diseases. Similarly, the F.D.A.’s founding vision was to regulate contaminated foods; now it helps bring safe and effective drugs to market. None of these mandates or benefits were foreseeable at their founding, and the same is true for founding a nutrition institute today.Establishing a place to research nutrition is also crucial to retain American competitiveness. The governments of China, India and Japan fund similar institutions. Improving the nation’s health through better nutrition will pay large and direct economic dividends. An independent analysis concluded that every $1 spent on research by the N.I.H. has led to $3.20 in economic gains, a return-on-investment of more than 200 percent. Given the role of diet in health and well-being, the current challenges to our military readiness and the spending of one in four federal dollars and one in five dollars in our economy on health care, the right question to ask ourselves is, can we afford not having a National Institute of Nutrition.Dr. Joon Yun is a radiologist and an American hedge fund manager. Dr. David Kessler served as the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration for President George H.W. Bush and President Bill Clinton. Dan Glickman was the secretary of agriculture from 1995 to 2001.AdvertisementSupported byKatie Couric, Cher, Stephen A. Smith and former contestants expressed support and hope for the ‘Jeopardy’ host after he revealed his cancer diagnosis this week.By Jonah Engel BromwichWhen Alex Trebek announced this week that he had been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, the outpouring of shock and support started immediately.Katie Couric, a longtime fan of the show who has turned down multiple invitations to participate in Celebrity Jeopardy for fear that “I’m going to choke and embarrass myself,” offered to introduce Mr. Trebek to a specialist in pancreatic cancer.Ms. Couric said that she had long found Mr. Trebek to be a reassuring presence, since she first started watching with her husband Jay Monahan, who was diagnosed with colon cancer and died in 1998.“He always crushed it on ‘Jeopardy,’” Ms. Couric said of her husband. “It was one of the many reasons I loved him. He could’ve kicked Ken Jennings’ butt.” (Mr. Jennings won 74 consecutive games.)Others who sent their best wishes to Mr. Trebek also said they strongly associated the show he has hosted for 35 years with a family member. That includes the sports commentator Stephen A. Smith, who tweeted that “Jeopardy” had been his mom’s favorite show.“Over the years, anytime I went home at 7 p.m. in New York City, she was laying in the bed watching ‘Jeopardy.’ I had to sit there and watch ‘Jeopardy’ with her if I was going to spend time with her,” Mr. Smith said.Mr. Smith’s mother died in 2017. “My heart goes out to him,” he said of Mr. Trebek, “because every time I see him, I see my mom.”Mr. Trebek, who will turn 79 in July, took over “Jeopardy” in 1984, when the show was revived by its creator Merv Griffin. (It had previously been canceled several times.) With Mr. Trebek at the helm, the quiz-show game sped up and its viewership increased, cementing its place as an evening ritual for families in the United States. Originally from Canada, Mr. Trebek became an American institution — and, then, in 1997, a U.S. citizen. He and the show both seemed so impervious to age that viewers reacted with shock to any mild change, such as when Mr. Trebek shaved his mustache. And larger modifications, such as when the show revoked a work-week-long limit on how many times a winner could return to compete in the next day’s contest, proved contentious.“I call it term limits,” said Richard Cordray, a five-time champion in the 1980s who went on to become the first director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. “We always were annoyed. All of us who won five times thought we would go on forever.”That small gripe aside, Mr. Cordray spoke admiringly of Mr. Trebek’s star quality, remarking on the way it propelled the show for so long: “Obviously he’s someone that people have really liked having in their living room for the last 35 years. It’s true of certain newscasters, it’s true of a few others — it’s a difficult quality to put your finger on but when somebody has it, it’s very apparent and he has it.”Fans expected Mr. Trebek to go on forever as well, though Mr. Trebek has suffered several health scares in the past dozen years, including two heart attacks and a fall in 2017 that required him to undergo brain surgery. “He just seems sort of immortal,” the journalist Jeffrey Toobin said in an interview. “I don’t think of him as having aged much.”“I’ve always found that when you arrive in a hotel room where you have no real sense of where you are, turning ‘Jeopardy’ on is always kind of a grounding experience,” Mr. Toobin said. “It was serenely the same at all times. Yet always interesting to watch.”Ms. Couric echoed that thought. “His omnipresence is very reassuring,” she said.“Jeopardy” contestants who had met Mr. Trebek recently were as taken aback by the announcement as anyone else. Kristin Philips, who works at the University of Washington and whose “Jeopardy” episode aired Thursday night, said that there had been nothing to indicate that anything had been affecting Mr. Trebek when she filmed with him in January.“I was literally aghast,” she said of the news. “I had no idea.”Sara Callori, a physics professor in Redlands, Calif., who appeared on the show two years ago said that she was surprised, but that she admired Mr. Trebek’s stoicism in the video in which he made the illness public.Ms. Callori has taken to watching the show while she feeds her 10-month-old.“We watch it when he eats breakfast in the morning,” she said. “I was hoping that he would grow up watching Alex Trebek host ‘Jeopardy’ the way I did. I still hope that’s true and that can continue.”Since Mr. Trebek’s announcement, the community of “Jeopardy” alumni has sprung into action, organizing events on his behalf. Chelsea Cohen, a contestant from 2019, is one of several who is setting up a play-along contest to benefit those afflicted with pancreatic cancer. Though home viewers may occasionally detect an edge of condescension in Mr. Trebek’s tone, contestants on the show described him as warm and gracious, putting effort into making them feel special, even though he had done the same for thousands of others.Claire Sattler, the high schooler who won the 2018 Teen Tournament, recalled Mr. Trebek telling her and her peers that it was his favorite of the competitions featured on “Jeopardy.” She assumed he said similar things to everyone. She was moved, later, she said, when in a speech to the competitors’ parents, Mr. Trebek started to tear up when he talked about how proud they should be of their kids.Asked what she would say to Mr. Trebek now, Ms. Sattler thought for a moment. “I hope he knows that he does have the whole support of every person who’s been on ‘Jeopardy,’ every ‘Jeopardy’ fan, along with his family and friends,” she said. “Whether he’s around for 20 more years or whether he’s not, he’s made such an amazing mark on so many individuals. And I just want him to know that as proud as he was of all of my friends in the teen tournament, we’re just as proud of him.” AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie TurkewitzFOUNTAIN, Colo. — When Army Staff Sgt. Samuel Fortune returned from Iraq, his body battered by war, he assumed he’d be safe.Then the people around him began to get sick. His neighbors, all living near five military bases, complained of tumors, thyroid problems and debilitating fatigue. Soon, the Colorado health department announced an unusually high number of kidney cancers in the region. Then Mr. Fortune’s wife fell ill.The military, it turned out, had been leaching toxic chemicals into the water for decades.Mr. Fortune felt “stabbed in the back,” he said. “We give our lives and our bodies for our country, and our government does not live up to their end of the deal.”That was 2016. Since then, the Defense Department has admitted that it allowed a firefighting foam to slip into at least 55 drinking water systems at military bases around the globe, sometimes for generations. This exposed tens of thousands of Americans, possibly many more, to per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances, a group of man-made chemicals known as PFAS that have been linked to cancers, immune suppression and other serious health problems.[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]Though the presence of the chemicals has been known for years, an announcement last week from the Environmental Protection Agency for the first time promised regulatory action, a significant acknowledgment of the startling scope of the problem that drew outrage from veterans and others living in contaminated communities.Acting administrator Andrew Wheeler said that the agency would begin the process of potentially limiting the presence of two of the compounds in drinking water, calling this a “pivotal moment in the history of the agency.”The admission drew some praise, but many said that it was not enough and that millions of people would keep ingesting the substances while a regulatory process plods along. “It should have been called an inaction plan,” said Judith Enck, a former E.P.A. regional administrator appointed by President Barack Obama.While the military has used the chemicals extensively, it is far from the only entity to do so, and in recent years, companies like DuPont have come under fire for leaching PFAS into water systems.All told, 10 million people could be drinking water laced with high levels of PFAS, according to Patrick Breysse, a top official at the federal Centers for Disease Control. Mr. Breysse has called the presence of the chemicals “one of the most seminal public health challenges” of the coming decades.The residents of Fountain, a mountain-flanked suburb of Colorado Springs, were told of the contamination by local officials who had been required by the E.P.A. to test the water for the substances, a step toward possible regulation. Soon dozens of communities from New York to Washington State discovered their drinking water was also polluted with PFAS.Many people began demanding that state and military officials test their blood for the chemicals, hoping to learn the extent of their presence in their bodies.The military has started an expensive cleanup effort that has involved shifting entire municipalities to new water sources and assessing toxic plumes that continue to spread for miles.Maureen Sullivan, the military’s deputy assistant secretary for environment, said the government had moved “aggressively” to tackle the problem, assessing cleanup duties and looking for alternatives to the firefighting foam, a version of which the military still uses.“I’m proud of what the Department of Defense has done in the past two-plus years,” she said.But frustration persists. The military never alerted all of the people who drank polluted water, meaning some are still in the dark. When asked how many people were affected by contamination, Ms. Sullivan said she “couldn’t hazard a guess.”WYOMINGNebraskaDenverutahkansasColorado SpringsFountainColoradoNew Mexico100 milesBy The New York Times“We’re tracking water sources,” she said, “not people.”Local and state governments have had to carve millions from their budgets to deal with the problem, much of which may never be paid back. In places like Oscoda, Mich., where the lake now froths with toxic foam, residents are fighting with defense officials over the extent to which the military must clean up the mess.“When I was in the Air Force, they preached all the time: ‘Do the right thing. Integrity first. Service before self. Excellence in all we do’,” said Aaron Weed, a 22-year veteran who is now Oscoda’s town supervisor. “This is not the Air Force that I was a part of,” he continued. “The side of the Air Force that I am seeing is just disgraceful.”Blood testing has emerged as a sticking point. Specifically, a growing movement of veterans and others, united in advocacy groups with names like Fountain Valley Clean Water Coalition and Need Our Water, are asking the military test their blood for the chemicals, hoping to bring results to their doctors or use them in lawsuits.Their requests have been denied, and the military says that too little is known about the substances to make the results useful. Instead, it will pay for the C.D.C. to start yearslong population-based health studies in some communities.“They don’t want to know,” said Cindi Ashbeck, 56, a veteran who worked out of Wurtsmith Air Force Base in Michigan. “It’s not being addressed, because you open that can of worms, and you’ve got an Agent Orange thing on your hands.”PFAS are a broad class of chemicals developed in the 1940s. Because they repel grease and water, they have been used across industries for decades, often to prevent stains. They are placed in a dizzying array of products: food packaging, nonstick pans, clothing, furniture. They are also used to extinguish fires where petroleum-based explosions pose a danger.But the chemicals move quickly through the earth and into water, where they persist indefinitely. Some scientists have deemed them “forever chemicals,” and over the last two decades, a growing body of research has shown that the compounds meant to help us are likely hurting us.The most comprehensive data, based on a study of 69,000 people living near in a West Virginia DuPont plant, say exposure is associated with kidney cancer, testicular cancer, thyroid disease, high cholesterol and ulcerative colitis, among other problems, while animal studies show delays in development.Mr. Fortune grew up in Sheridan, Wyo., where joining the Army was the way to avoid the coal mine or a job at Wal-Mart, he said.He enlisted in 1998, serving two tours in Iraq as a mechanic. On his final visit, while he was waiting on the airfield for his ride out of the country, enemy mortar threw him against a wall meant to fortify the area, damaging his back and tearing all the tendons in his shoulders. He had to be rebuilt, with metal. “Five rods, two plates, nine screws, 10 nails, 20 staples,” he said. “I make an X-ray glow.”The Army then stationed Mr. Fortune in Colorado Springs, home to five military bases, placing him, his wife, Bianca, and their children, Bryan and Sophia, in the center of a contamination zone.He learned about the contamination in 2016. The military said it had come from the Peterson Air Force Base nearby. His family had been drinking the water for a decade.Soon, Ms. Fortune was in and out of the hospital, and Mr. Fortune became increasingly concerned that the cause was the chemicals. His wife told doctors of a debilitating pain in her right abdomen, intense joint pain and exhaustion. Her blood cell counts rose and fell like yo-yos. Some doctors thought it was Lyme disease; others weren’t so sure.Like many around the country, Mr. Fortune has joined one of several lawsuits against the companies that made the firefighting foam, including 3M and Tyco Fire Products. Others, including the City of Newburgh, N.Y., are suing the military directly.But the lawyer in the Colorado case, David McDivitt, said he thought that would be too difficult because “it’s tough to sue the federal government.”For years, there were signs that the chemicals in the military’s firefighting foam were dangerous. Defense Department studies dating to the 1970s indicated that the substances were harmful to laboratory animals, according to an investigation by The Colorado Springs Gazette, and the Army Corps of Engineers told Fort Carson to stop using the foam in 1991, calling it “harmful to the environment.”In 2000, under pressure from the E.P.A., 3M phased out production of some of the compounds, announcing that they could “could potentially pose a risk to human health.” Five years later, the E.P.A. declared that another compound was “likely to be carcinogenic to humans.”But the military has said it continued to use firefighting foams containing the compounds because companies have continued to produce them and the E.P.A. doesn’t regulate them.Industry officials have said they are following E.P.A. rules, while the E.P.A. has said it is still exploring regulation.“You know the Shaggy song, ‘It wasn’t me’?’” said Mr. McDivitt. “It’s like that.”In Fountain, the Defense Department has installed short-term water filters and is building treatment plants meant to fix the problem in the long-term. This has won the praise of some local officials. “We’re pleased with where we’re at,” said Curtis Mitchell of the Fountain water district.Not everyone agrees.After news broke of the contamination in Fountain and nearby communities, the Colorado health department said that while the area had a higher-than-normal rate of several cancers, that might be explained by high rates of obesity and smoking in the region.Steve Patterson, 62, whose family had been drinking fouled water for decades, is skeptical of that explanation. A dozen of his relatives have died of cancer, some genetically related to him, some not.Mr. Fortune recently began asking the military to test his wife’s blood for the substances.AdvertisementSupported byTimes InsiderAn ambitious Opinion Video project produced across three continents — in collaboration with a pioneering forensic research group — shines a spotlight on the more than 16,000 migrants who have died trying to cross the Mediterranean since 2014.By Taylor Adams and Adam B. EllickTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.More than 16,000 migrants have died trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea since 2014 — with more than 100 new deaths this past weekend off the coast of Libya. Those who go this route are among the least powerful people in the world, and they often drown anonymously — mere statistics in tragedies that tend to occur with barely a trace of documentation.Our Opinion Video team at The Times sought to change that with an ambitious project produced across three continents that would combine cutting-edge technology such as forensic verification with traditional reporting.It began when a couple of us made visits to the offices of the pioneering British research group Forensic Architecture to discuss possible collaborations. Soon afterward, Forensic Architecture and Forensic Oceanography, an affiliated research group specializing in the investigation of incidents at sea, reached out with an intriguing idea.They had received a trove of raw footage — dozens of hours from more than 10 cameras — documenting an incident in November 2017 in which at least 20 migrants died during a rescue by the German humanitarian group Sea-Watch that was disrupted by Europe’s chosen partner in the Mediterranean, the Libyan Coast Guard. Beyond the deaths, several of which were wrenchingly captured by Sea-Watch’s GoPros and ship-mounted cameras, 47 other migrants were taken back to horrible and dangerous conditions in refugee camps in Libya.The footage showed more viscerally than anything we had seen before what it’s like for these people who are forced to flee their homes to try to cross the sea: the churning water, the precarious rafts and, most recently, the chaotic confrontations between the Libyan Coast Guard and rescue groups.More broadly, it revealed how rising anti-immigrant policies in Europe have worsened the crisis.Forensic Oceanography had created a report and a minute-by-minute reconstruction of the episode intended partly to support a case that was about to be filed on behalf of survivors at the European Court of Human Rights.Their reporting was deep, but it was very technical. We wanted to build on the original research to create a short film that would sharpen the story while still embracing complexity.We hired an Emmy-winning editor, Dan Madden, who spent a few weeks analyzing the raw footage. We thought it was likely that the rescuers and the survivors would have more to say about what happened. So we added some on-the-ground video reporting.We worked with Forensic Oceanography and legal advocates on the case to persuade survivors to let us interview them. Several agreed to participate as long as we protected their identities. Then we hired a Rome-based videographer, Pierre Kattar, who during those interviews showed the survivors the footage and filmed some of them as they recognized themselves amid the chaos. Pierre traveled to Germany to shoot interviews with two of the Sea-Watch rescue team who were there that day and could give a play-by-play of what went wrong as the Libyan Coast Guard intervened.We also wanted to tell the story of surviving migrants who met the opposite fate: those who were seized by the Libyans and taken back to Libya, where some were tortured. Forensic Oceanography located two migrants who had been in hiding ever since they escaped from their second set of captors, on the verge of being ransomed. We hoped to film them as well, but they were not comfortable with video. A Libyan journalist who works for The Times warned us that it would have been too dangerous to meet them in person anyway, because militants controlled the wider area where they were hiding. So instead we requested a phone interview. Even that made them anxious, they told us, but eventually they trusted us to conceal their identities and location. We spoke with them for about an hour over an erratic phone line that was interrupted several times by a sand or wind storm, and we got their story.We were excited to begin the video edit of this new material, but our work came to an emergency halt when our editor, Dan, learned he needed urgent treatment for cancer. Several weeks later, Dan died at the age of 44. We were shocked by this sudden loss and weren’t sure whether to proceed. But we decided it would be best to carry forward his work and get the story out there. Another editor, Kristin Bye, joined us and spent weeks combing through the footage to get acquainted with the narrative. Along the way, she unearthed new details and discovered small arcs of drama that we had missed.As we posted the video, Sea-Watch — one of the few humanitarian groups still operating in the area — was being prevented from entering any European port, with dozens of survivors of recent crossing attempts onboard and storms approaching. Eventually, survivors were allowed to disembark in Valletta, Malta, where they were to be distributed across nine member states of the European Union.Still, the crisis at sea is continuing, and it remains largely invisible despite the steady drumbeat of deaths. Video footage and 3-D modeling will help shine a spotlight on the legal process at the European Court of Human Rights. A victory there, hope the lawyers for the survivors, would hold European countries accountable for what happens when they collaborate at sea with partners like the Libyan Coast Guard — which might in turn force an end to a “solution” that, as the film shows, is anything but.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Taylor Adams is a staff editor on the Opinion desk at The New York Times.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensFormer President Jimmy Carter became the longest-living president in United States history on Friday, etching his name next to another milestone as he continues a rich post-presidential life that has spanned nearly four decades.On Friday, Mr. Carter, the nation’s 39th president, reached the age of 94 years and 172 days, making him a day older than former President George Bush was when he died in November.The record comes more than three years after Mr. Carter announced that he would receive treatment for cancer that had been discovered in his brain.“I’m perfectly at ease with whatever comes,” Mr. Carter said at the time in August 2015; four months later, he said he was cancer free.In a statement Friday morning, a spokeswoman for the Carter Center, the Atlanta-based nonprofit that Mr. Carter and his wife, Rosalynn, founded in 1982, said the former president took fewer long trips than he used to. But the spokeswoman, Deanna Congileo, said Mr. Carter “continues to remain engaged in the causes and activities that have marked his post-presidency.”“He provides vision and assistance for Carter Center programs in global peace and health, participates in Habitat for Humanity builds one week a year, delivers Sunday school lessons in his hometown Plains, Ga., teaches at Emory University, and much more,” Ms. Congileo said.“He and Mrs. Carter take walks, and they have followed a healthy diet for a lifetime,” she continued. “Both President and Mrs. Carter are determined to use their influence for as long as they can to make the world a better place. Their tireless resolve and heart have helped to improve life for millions of the world’s poorest people.”Mr. Carter, a Democrat born on Oct. 1, 1924, promised to heal the country after Watergate only to last one term in office, his re-election chances hurt by a miserable economy and a hostage crisis. But while many in both parties consider Mr. Carter a disappointment as president, they generally view him as a model former president. Mr. Carter has enjoyed the longest post-presidency in American history after leaving the White House in 1981.In addition to the activities listed by Ms. Congileo, Mr. Carter has intimately shared the details of his life story in a series of books; doled out hyper-specific advice about diet, exercise and the foundations of a meaningful life; and guided the Carter Center toward a series of public health achievements.In July 2017, Mr. Carter was hospitalized after he became dehydrated while, at age 92, he had been leading his annual Habitat for Humanity building project. A few months later he joined the other four living former United States presidents on a Texas stage to help raise money for hurricane recovery efforts. And last year, he attended Mr. Bush’s state funeral at Washington National Cathedral.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

JAN. 4, 2019

If you stood for an hour rather than sitting for an hour, you would burn about how many additional calories?9 calories54 calories120 calories220 caloriesA Danish study found that cholesterol levels tend to be highest at this time of year:Christmas weekThe first week of JanuaryThe first week of springThe first week of autumnHearing loss is associated with an increased risk of:DementiaDepressionCardiovascular diseaseAll of the abovePotassium bromate is one of several food additives banned in Europe because it has been tied to cancer but allowed in the United States. Potassium bromate is commonly added to:SodasBaked goodsArtificial sweetenersKetchupBeing overweight contributes to about what percentage of all cancers?1 percent3 percent7 percent14 percentWhich statement about HDL cholesterol is true?It is often referred to as "good" cholesterolHDL levels below 30 milligrams per deciliter of blood are considered a health riskHDL levels exceeding 70 milligrams may also pose a health riskAll of the aboveResearchers in Sierra Leone found that these animals tested positive for Marburg virus, the first time the deadly virus has been found in West Africa:DogsMonkeysAdvertisementSupported byBy Andrew HigginsASBEST, Russia — Sniped at for decades by health advocates, Russia’s doggedly defiant producer of asbestos — a substance banned as a killer by more than 60 countries — thinks it has perhaps finally found the perfect figure for a campaign to rehabilitate the product’s deeply stained image: President Trump.“Trump is on our side,” said Vladimir V. Kochelayev, chairman of the board of Uralasbest, one of the world’s few remaining producers of asbestos, citing what he said were reports that the Trump administration was easing restrictions on asbestos use.The United States stopped mining asbestos in 2002, but the material still pours onto the world market from a huge hole in the ground in Russia’s Ural Mountains.The surrounding city, where nearly every family depends in one way or another on a substance that the World Health Organization says is a serial killer, is called simply Asbest, the Russian word for asbestos.Canada has a town called Asbestos, too, but it stopped producing the stuff years ago and has toyed with changing its name to something less off-putting. Its Russian twin, where locals seldom if ever question the wisdom of mining asbestos with explosive charges that stir up thick clouds of dust saturated with asbestos fibers, sees no reason to do anything like that.All the same, it has tried hard to shed asbestos’s associations with lung cancer and other diseases by rebranding its product as “chrysotile,” the bland, technical name of the specific type of mineral it mostly mines.Chrysotile not only sounds less scary, it really is, said Mr. Kochelayev, skimming over the fact that it is a carcinogen.He insisted it was much less dangerous than other forms of “asbestos,” the generic commercial name used to describe different fibrous minerals that until the 1970s were used around the world in insulation, roof tiles, fire-resistant clothing and many other products.“I cannot say it is totally safe,” Mr. Kochelayev said of chrysotile, but “it can be used in controlled situations without danger.”After years of watching a global campaign against all forms of asbestos gather steam amid mounting health liability issues, Mr. Kochelayev’s company last year reacted with glee to reports that the Environmental Protection Agency under Mr. Trump was relaxing tight restrictions on asbestos use in the United States.The agency denied doing any such thing, but Uralasbest celebrated nonetheless by posting a picture on its Facebook page showing pallets of its asbestos stamped with a seal that featured President Trump’s face and the words: “Approved by Donald Trump, 45th president of the United States.”The photo was a public relations stunt, and none of the asbestos sold by Uralasbest was ever stamped with Mr. Trump’s face. But the image generated widespread media attention for a company that had previously made headlines only when it was denounced by anti-asbestos campaigners.“This was a very successful media operation,” said Pavel Kashpurov, a young Uralasbest public relations expert who dreamed it up.He came up with the idea after the E.P.A., then under the leadership of Scott Pruitt, a Trump appointee, announced “new use” rules for asbestos that campaigners denounced as opening the way for more use of the material. The agency said its intentions had been misinterpreted.With Brazil and Canada, which used to supply most of the asbestos used in the United States, now out of the business, Russia sees an opening for its own product — if only it can get Americans to stop worrying about dying and listen to its sale pitch that Russian asbestos, or chrysotile, is really not so bad. After years of declining output, Uralasbest last year increased its asbestos production to 315,000 tons, 80 percent of it sold abroad, from 279,200 tons.But it sold only 67 tons to the United States, a market that had all but disappeared because of health concerns but is now picking up slightly. The 750 tons of asbestos imported over all last year by the United States was still nowhere near the 803,000 tons consumed in the United States in 1973, before a tidal wave of lawsuits and health warnings made asbestos a byword for death and financial ruin.Nobody in Asbest, 900 miles east of Moscow, is expecting asbestos to be fully rehabilitated any time soon, with or without a helping hand from Mr. Trump.But the rebranding of asbestos as chrysotile has helped slow the collapse of the city’s economic backbone and blunted calls for a global ban on all forms of asbestos.The town’s former mayor, Andrei Kholzakov, who chairs an international association of trade union groups lobbying for asbestos, said that hopes of a turnabout in American policy had been disappointing so far. Still, he said that Mr. Trump, as a businessman familiar with construction, “understands the reality of asbestos better than other people.”Mr. Trump, before becoming president, did indeed have a long record of defending asbestos as a fire-retardant, tweeting in 2012 that if it had not been replaced with “junk that doesn’t work, the World Trade Center would never have burned down” in the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. His 1997 book, “The Art of the Comeback,” said that asbestos had “got a bad rap,” claiming that efforts to force its removal from schools and other buildings were “led by the mob,” rather than motivated by health concerns.Such views mesh neatly with Russia’s own longstanding view that asbestos producers are the victim of an elaborate conspiracy driven by greedy, primarily American, lawyers who make money suing for asbestos-related damages and chemical companies that produce alternative fire retardant materials.The city of Asbest, after more than 130 years of intensive mining, still has enough chrysotile asbestos buried in the ground to keep Uralasbest in business for at least another century, provided its customers, mostly in Asia and Africa, do not take flight.It also has seemingly bottomless reserves of enthusiasm among residents for a product that, according to a 2014 report by the World Health Organization, kills more than 107,000 people worldwide each year.Even local doctors are entirely with the program.Igor Bragin, the head doctor at Asbest city’s hospital complex, dismissed as “not corresponding to reality” a 2016 scientific study that showed elevated rates of lung cancer there. The study, a comparative review of death rates in Asbest and the surrounding region of Sverdlovsk, found that “mortality rates for cancers of the lung, stomach and colon were statistically significantly higher in Asbest city.” The incidence of mesothelioma, a lung disease widely blamed on asbestos in the West, was not studied because Russia does not register that disease separately.While there is some scientific basis for claims that chrysotile, also known as “white asbestos,” is less dangerous than “black” and “blue” asbestos, the International Agency for Research on Cancer said “there is sufficient evidence in humans for the carcinogenicity of all forms of asbestos,” including chrysotile.Uralasbest says that cases of disease among employees have fallen sharply as it has introduced better air filters in its huge processing plant and forced workers there to wear better masks. But, while boasting of its improved conditions, the company declined to grant access to the factory, saying it was in a restricted zone.The view of many Asbest residents is that there are so many other things to worry about in their heavily industrialized region, including a nuclear power station just a few miles away and an even nearer coal-fired power plant, that asbestos is probably the least of their worries.“Everything is potentially dangerous,” said Ksyusha Ustinova, a 30-year-old woman who, dressed in a fur-trimmed coat, came with friends last week to peer into the six-mile-long hole on the outskirts of town where asbestos is mined. “Why worry about asbestos so much?”Viktor Stepanov, an 88-year-old pensioner who spent decades working in the asbestos factory, said his own advanced age and continuing good health were proof that all the “hysteria” about asbestos could not be true. He explained that while working at the asbestos plant, he drank a bottle of milk a day, which the company provided free to help workers fend off disease.“Everything is dangerous to some degree,” he said. “One-hundred percent guarantees that something is not harmful do not exist.”AdvertisementSupported byPor Marina Franco¡Ya es viernes! Bienvenido al boletín diario de The New York Times en Español. Si aún no estás suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.¿Tienes sugerencias? ¿Quieres hacernos llegar tu opinión? Escríbenos a esta dirección.• En México, quienes padecen el cáncer más letal y más prevenible no tienen cobertura. La prevalencia del cáncer de pulmón entre los mexicanos la hace la primera causa de muerte por cáncer en el país y también la enfermedad más estigmatizada: quienes la padecen no pueden acceder al tratamiento a través del seguro médico popular (es el único de los cinco tipos de cáncer más comunes que no cubre) y los médicos consultados creen que es muy probable que se deba a que se le asocia con el tabaquismo, que pone la responsabilidad de la enfermedad sobre los pacientes. Sin embargo, una parte de ellos no desarrolla este cáncer por tabaquismo, sino por usar leña u otros combustibles fósiles para cocinar.• Un conflicto minero escala en Perú. Desde hace unos dos meses, comunidades en Perú realizan bloqueos viales en rechazo a la mina Las Bambas, pues la empresa dueña del sitio de extracción suele atravesar terrenos comunales sin que los habitantes sientan que son beneficiados. La situación conflictiva por el bloqueo creció ayer, cuando se reportaron enfrentamientos que dejaron doce heridos y el tema llegó hasta el congreso.• Megamarcha en Argentina contra medidas económicas antes de una reunión con el FMI. Personas convocadas por sindicatos y organizaciones sociales protestaron ayer en Buenos Aires contra la gestión económica de Mauricio Macri: reclaman que la situación es insostenible por el alza del dólar y por el plan para recibir financiamiento del Fondo Monetario Internacional (FMI) que implica medidas de austeridad. La marcha fue antes de una reunión entre el presidente argentino y el FMI, programada para hoy.“La alianza del presidente [de Guatemala] ha mostrado que quiere devolver al país al tiempo en que una cúpula militar tenía todo el poder. Sacar a [Thelma] Aldana de la carrera presidencial es el paso más decisivo para lograrlo. Sin candidatos opositores en la boleta electoral, ¿se puede hablar de una votación limpia y legal?”.El periodista guatemalteco Martín Rodríguez Pellecer describe de qué manera la democracia y las medidas anticorrupción en Guatemala peligran con la decisión de vetar la candidatura de la exfiscala Thelma Aldana, a meses de las elecciones presidenciales del 16 de junio. Con ello, dice, “el país está en peligro de convertirse en otra dictadura en el vecindario”.Cualquier interesado puede ser parte de este censo: el proyecto Canid Camera [en inglés] invita a los internautas a revisar de cerca fotografías tomadas en zonas boscosas alrededor de Nueva York para dilucidar qué animales aparecen en la toma (con ayuda de infografías y datos de la universidad estatal que dirige el proyecto, por supuesto). La intención es generar conciencia sobre las especies que ya hay y generar apoyo para la creación de nuevos bosques, que atraerían una mayor diversidad animal.• El antisemitismo resurge entre la izquierda y la derecha. En un contexto de creciente incertidumbre económica, un énfasis en la identidad nacional y una creciente polarización política, los expertos advierten que el repudio al pueblo judío está surgiendo de lugares insospechados: lo mismo entre izquierdistas radicales británicos que entre conservadores extremos húngaros. “Hoy en día los políticos europeos y norteamericanos de las corrientes dominantes, hasta presidentes y primeros ministros, no dudan en hacer referencia o respaldar abiertamente mensajes antisemitas”, dice un académico de la Universidad de Chicago.• Lo que reveló la caja negra del avión de Ethiopian Airlines. Los pilotos del avión Boeing 737 Max 8 que cayó el 10 de marzo, minutos después del despegue y con 157 personas a bordo, notificaron problemas desde un inicio, según el primer reporte de la investigación etíope basado en los datos de la caja negra [en inglés]. Uno de los sensores comenzó a marcar un ángulo falso del movimiento de la aeronave, lo que activó el mecanismo automático MCAS. Este forzó hacia abajo la nariz del avión para intentar compensar. Los pilotos intentaron desactivar la respuesta automática, pero no fue posible. Varios reguladores aéreos y aerolíneas han suspendido el uso de los 737 Max mientras se estudia si el piloto automático es un problema generalizado.•  La reaparición del sarampión,  un problema alimentado por rumores y errores de las farmacéuticas. De 2000 a 2016 las muertes por sarampión se redujeron en un 86 por ciento, en parte gracias a campañas generales de vacunación. Pero desde entonces los casos de contagio han aumentado en un 30 por ciento, con brotes en lugares como Filipinas y Venezuela que tienen fuera de quicio a funcionarios de salud a nivel mundial. ¿Cómo y por qué se revirtió la tendencia?• Dime qué comes y te diré cómo te sientes. El impacto de la alimentación en la salud mental es la base del nuevo campo de la psiquiatría nutricional y uno de sus promotores tiene consejos sobre cómo asegurarnos de que lo que comemos tenga la variedad fundamental de micronutrientes que necesita nuestro cerebro.En el amor hay muchos obstáculos y uno bastante frecuente es el temor a lo que piensen los demás de nuestra relación. Al menos así fue para Christopher Rivas, quien escribe sobre las dudas que lo rodean como varón de ascendencia latina cada vez que se enamora de una mujer blanca, y para Nicole Dennis-Benn, una mujer de ascendencia jamaiquina que cuenta cómo ha interiorizado el temor a tan solo darle la mano a su pareja por el repudio social.[Da clic aquí para leer más historias de Modern Love]• “Cuando un amigo se va”, un adiós a Alberto Cortez. Ayer falleció el cantautor argentino cuyas letras pusieron en el centro la épica de lo cotidiano, desde las mentiritas que nos contamos a nosotros mismos —“empezaré a partir de mañana”— hasta los sueños —“el niño tiene la llave del eterno sueño de ser o no ser”—. Diego Salazar recuerda cómo era escuchar a Cortez durante su infancia, mientras sus padres y sus amigos conversaban sobre política en la mesa.• As a friend, as a known enemy: Kurt Cobain a veinticinco años de su muerte. Hoy es el aniversario del fallecimiento del artista y qué mejor ocasión para revisitar uno de los primeros conciertos de Nirvana, grabado para la posteridad en el pequeño club The Moon, en Nueva Hampshire. Esta actuación de septiembre de 1991 se hizo antes de que la banda fuera ultrafamosa: apenas habían pasado tres días del lanzamiento de Nevermind.• Dos alternativas de amor familiar en el cine: con superhéroes y gatos resucitados. Hoy se estrenan la nueva película de DC Comics y la más reciente adaptación de la obra de Stephen King. ¡Shazam! rompe con el tono excesivamente lúgubre que han tenido casi todos los filmes de DC, escribe la crítica Manohla Dargis [en inglés], gracias a personajes “cómica e identificablemente torpes”. Mientras que Cementerio de animales (o Cementerio maldito) retoma aquel espeluznante libro de King sobre los extremos a los que uno llega en el duelo. El mismo King dijo hace poco que la adaptación “es jodidamente maravillosa”.• ¿Homenaje o plagio? Componer música cuando pende una espada de Damocles legal. Los compositores del pop se sienten arrinconados desde que prosperó una demanda contra la canción “Blurred Lines”, de Pharrell y Robin Thicke, por sus semejanzas con una obra de Marvin Gaye. ¿Cómo afectará a la composición de la música que llega a nuestros oídos? “No debería estar pensando en antecedentes jurídicos cuando intento escribir un coro”, dice un compositor que ha trabajado con Beyoncé y Rihanna.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily on Monday:Electronics For Imaging Inc., up $8.60 to $38The digital printing company is being bought by private equity firm Siris Capital Group LLC for about $1.7 billion.Alliance Data Systems Corp., down $16.89 to $164.04Publicis Groupe will buy the data collection and marketing services company's Epsilon business for about $4.4 billion.Waste Management Inc., up $2.47 to $104.26The trash and recycling collection company is paying about $3 billion for rival Advanced Disposal.Clovis Oncology Inc., down $2.93 to $20.55The drug developer is halting a study on a potential bladder cancer treatment, according to media reports.The Goldman Sachs Group Inc., down $7.83 to $199.91The investment bank's first quarter earnings fell by 21%, hurt by a slowdown in trading.Mattel Inc., down 41 cents to $13.19The toy and kids products maker is recalling nearly 5 million Fisher-Price infant sleepers after more than 30 babies died in them over a 10-year period.Catalent Inc., up $5.15 to $44.41The pharmaceutical services and products company is buying gene-therapy company Paragon Biosciences for $1.2 billion.AdvertisementSupported byScientists have long tried to duplicate the procedure that led to the first long-term remission 12 years ago. With the so-called London patient, they seem to have succeeded.By Apoorva MandavilliFor just the second time since the global epidemic began, a patient appears to have been cured of infection with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS.The news comes nearly 12 years to the day after the first patient known to be cured, a feat that researchers have long tried, and failed, to duplicate. The surprise success now confirms that a cure for H.I.V. infection is possible, if difficult, researchers said.The investigators are to publish their report on Tuesday in the journal Nature and to present some of the details at the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections in Seattle. Publicly, the scientists are describing the case as a long-term remission. In interviews, most experts are calling it a cure, with the caveat that it is hard to know how to define the word when there are only two known instances.Both milestones resulted from bone-marrow transplants given to infected patients. But the transplants were intended to treat cancer in the patients, not H.I.V.[Read answers to 4 key questions about an H.I.V. cure.]Bone-marrow transplantation is unlikely to be a realistic treatment option in the near future. Powerful drugs are now available to control H.I.V. infection, while the transplants are risky, with harsh side effects that can last for years. But rearming the body with immune cells similarly modified to resist H.I.V. might well succeed as a practical treatment, experts said. “This will inspire people that cure is not a dream,” said Dr. Annemarie Wensing, a virologist at the University Medical Center Utrecht in the Netherlands. “It’s reachable.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Dr. Wensing is co-leader of IciStem, a consortium of European scientists studying stem cell transplants to treat H.I.V. infection. The consortium is supported by AMFAR, the American AIDS research organization. The new patient has chosen to remain anonymous, and the scientists referred to him only as the “London patient.”“I feel a sense of responsibility to help the doctors understand how it happened so they can develop the science,” he told The New York Times in an email. Learning that he could be cured of both cancer and H.I.V. infection was “surreal” and “overwhelming,” he added. “I never thought that there would be a cure during my lifetime.”At the same conference in 2007, a German doctor described the first such cure in the “Berlin patient,” later identified as Timothy Ray Brown, 52, who now lives in Palm Springs, Calif.That news, displayed on a poster at the back of a conference room, initially gained little attention. Once it became clear that Mr. Brown was cured, scientists set out to duplicate his result with other cancer patients infected with H.I.V.In case after case, the virus came roaring back, often around nine months after the patients stopped taking antiretroviral drugs, or else the patients died of cancer. The failures left scientists wondering whether Mr. Brown’s cure would remain a fluke.Mr. Brown had had leukemia, and after chemotherapy failed to stop it, needed two bone-marrow transplants.The transplants were from a donor with a mutation in a protein called CCR5, which rests on the surface of certain immune cells. H.I.V. uses the protein to enter those cells but cannot latch on to the mutated version. Mr. Brown was given harsh immunosuppressive drugs of a kind that are no longer used, and suffered intense complications for months after the transplant. He was placed in an induced coma at one point and nearly died.“He was really beaten up by the whole procedure,” said Dr. Steven Deeks, an AIDS expert at the University of California, San Francisco, who has treated Mr. Brown. “And so we’ve always wondered whether all that conditioning, a massive amount of destruction to his immune system, explained why Timothy was cured but no one else.”The London patient has answered that question: A near-death experience is not required for the procedure to work.He had Hodgkin’s lymphoma and received a bone-marrow transplant from a donor with the CCR5 mutation in May 2016. He, too, received immunosuppressive drugs, but the treatment was much less intense, in line with current standards for transplant patients.He quit taking anti-H.I.V. drugs in September 2017, making him the first patient since Mr. Brown known to remain virus-free for more than a year after stopping.“I think this does change the game a little bit,” said Dr. Ravindra Gupta, a virologist at University College London who presented the findings at the Seattle meeting. “Everybody believed after the Berlin patient that you needed to nearly die basically to cure H.I.V., but now maybe you don’t.”Although the London patient was not as ill as Mr. Brown had been after the transplant, the procedure worked about as well: The transplant destroyed the cancer without harmful side effects. The transplanted immune cells, now resistant to H.I.V., seem to have fully replaced his vulnerable cells.Most people with the H.I.V.-resistant mutation, called delta 32, are of Northern European descent. IciStem maintains a database of about 22,000 such donors.So far, its scientists are tracking 38 H.I.V.-infected people who have received bone-marrow transplants, including six from donors without the mutation.The London patient is 36 on this list. Another one, number 19 on the list and referred to as the “Düsseldorf patient,” has been off anti-H.I.V. drugs for four months. Details of that case will be presented at the Seattle conference later this week.The consortium’s scientists have repeatedly analyzed the London patient’s blood for signs of the virus. They saw a weak indication of continued infection in one of 24 tests, but say this may be the result of contamination in the sample. The most sensitive test did not find any circulating virus. Antibodies to H.I.V. were still present in his blood, but their levels declined over time, in a trajectory similar to that seen in Mr. Brown.None of this guarantees that the London patient is forever out of the woods, but the similarities to Mr. Brown’s recovery offer reason for optimism, Dr. Gupta said.“In a way, the only person to compare with directly is the Berlin patient,” he said. “That’s kind of the only standard we have at the moment.”Most experts who know the details agree that the new case seems like a legitimate cure, but some are uncertain of its relevance for AIDS treatment overall.“I’m not sure what this tells us,” said Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. “It was done with Timothy Ray Brown, and now here’s another case — ok, so now what? Now where do we go with it?”One possibility, said Dr. Deeks and others, is to develop gene-therapy approaches to knock out CCR5 on immune cells or their predecessor stem cells. Resistant to H.I.V. infection, these modified cells should eventually clear the body of the virus.(CCR5 is the protein that He Jiankui, a scientist in China, claimed to have modified with gene editing in at least two children, in an attempt to make them resistant to H.I.V. — an experiment that set off international condemnation.)Several companies are pursuing gene therapies but have not yet been successful. The modification must target the right number of cells, in the right place — only the bone marrow, for example, and not the brain — and tweak only the genes directing production of CCR5.“There are a number of levels of precision that must be reached,” said Dr. Mike McCune, a senior adviser on global health to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. “There are also concerns that you might do something untoward, and if so you might wish to have a kill switch.”Several teams are working on all of these obstacles, Dr. McCune said. Eventually, they may be able to develop a viral delivery system that, when injected into the body, seeks out all CCR5 receptors and deletes them, or even a donor stem cell that is resistant to H.I.V. but could be given to any patient. “These are dreams, right? Things on the drawing table,” Dr. McCune said. “These dreams are motivated by cases like this — it helps us to imagine what might be done in the future.”One important caveat to any such approach is that the patient would still be vulnerable to a form of H.I.V. called X4, which employs a different protein, CXCR4, to enter cells.“This is only going to work if someone has a virus that really only uses CCR5 for entry — and that’s actually probably about 50 percent of the people who are living with H.I.V., if not less,” said Dr. Timothy J. Henrich, an AIDS specialist at the University of California, San Francisco.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirBarbara Hammer, an experimental filmmaker who began celebrating lesbian sexuality and history in her work in the 1970s, and who in her last years turned her battle against cancer into cinematic art, died on Saturday in her partner’s home in Manhattan. She was 79.Florrie Burke, her partner, said the cause was endometrioid ovarian cancer.Ms. Hammer’s filmmaking took a radical turn in 1970 when she came out as a lesbian. She was 30 and divorced from her husband when her first female lover helped her rediscover herself.“Her leg touched my own and I felt this incredible rush — erotic rush — just through our knees, and I thought, ‘Oh, my God, I’ve never felt this for a woman before,’ ” she said in an oral history interview for the Smithsonian Archives of American Art last year. “And I decided right then I can act on this or ignore it. I decided to act on it.”Beside her lover at Ms. Hammer’s home in Santa Rosa, Calif., she recalled, “I became a lesbian.”Her epiphany catapulted her into directing films that let her explore her life and those of other lesbians decades before the legalization of same-sex marriage and other L.G.B.T. civil rights milestones.For her influential four-minute film “Dyketactics” (1974), she shot about a dozen nude women in sensual montages in an idyllic forest setting in Napa Valley and added scenes of herself making love to a girlfriend. She called it her “lesbian commercial.” Two years later, in “Multiple Orgasm,” she showed alternating close-ups of a woman masturbating and her ecstatic face.“One of my goals was to put a lesbian on camera — on film — in the 20th century and now into the 21st century, because when I began there weren’t any that I could find,” she told Nomorepotlucks, an online art, culture and politics journal, in a 2009 interview.Over the next 40 years she made dozens of films and videos. Working mostly with eight-millimeter, Super 8 and 16-millimeter film, Ms. Hammer produced and directed essaylike films and documentaries, often abstract and devoid of traditional narrative structure, ranging from a few minutes long to feature length.“Hammer strives in her films for a new visual language, a new way of presenting images that disrobes the conventions of the straight realm and reimagines the garb of our queer world in all its underground pathos, sexuality, playfulness and positively perverse gaze,” the poet Janlori Goldman wrote on the website of the Leslie-Lohman Museum of Gay and Lesbian Art in Manhattan in 2017, when the museum held an exhibition of Ms. Hammer’s work.Ms. Hammer delved into lesbian history and culture through the stories of artists like the photographer Alice Austen (in the documentary “The Female Closet”) and the poet Elizabeth Bishop (“Welcome to This House”). She explored menstruation (“Menses”), coverage of the AIDS epidemic (“Snow Job”) and how women view their sexuality compared with male images of women and sex (“No No Nooky T.V.”).Not all her films were about lesbianism or sexuality. Her subjects also included women in the Korean Islands who dive for shellfish (“Diving Women of Jeju-do”); the artists Henri Matisse and Henri Bonnard’s work during World War II (“Resisting Paradise”); and the fragility of the human body as seen through X-rays (“Sanctus”).But, she told the Smithsonian archive, “I have never separated my sexuality from my art, even if the film has nothing to do with lesbian representation.”Barbara Jean Hammer was born on May 15, 1939, in Los Angeles and grew up in nearby Inglewood. Her father, John, owned a gas station, and her mother, Marian (Kusz) Hammer, was a secretary.Barbara studied psychology at the University of California, Los Angeles, and married Clayton Ward a day after her graduation. They stayed married for nine years before she left him and came out.She earned a master’s degree in English literature from San Francisco State College (now University) and began painting in acrylics. But by the time she earned honorable mention for an early film, “Schizy” (1968), at a Super 8 film festival in Sonoma County, she had turned her attention to moviemaking.“The experience of watching it projected with an audience was incredible,” she said in 1990 in an interview for Art Papers magazine. “The film was larger than any canvas I’d painted, and the audience was captured by the darkness and direction of light to watch my work in a way no one had looked at my paintings.“That was it. I was a filmmaker.”But it would take a few more years, until she was studying film history at San Francisco State (where she earned her second master’s), that she recognized what she might contribute as a female moviemaker. She had watched “Meshes of the Afternoon” (1943), a short experimental film written and co-directed by Maya Deren.“I knew there was room for a woman’s vision on the screen,” she said in the Art Papers interview. Her first 16-millimeter film, “I Was/I Am” — in which, she said, “I go through a transformation from a princess to a dyke” — was a homage to Ms. Deren.Her films, often produced on a shoestring, did not reach a mainstream audience. But she received several honors, including a 2013 Guggenheim Fellowship, which helped finance “Welcome to This House” (2015), her film about Elizabeth Bishop, and three Teddy Awards, for short films about L.G.B.T. subjects, from the Berlin International Film Festival. She also had retrospectives of her work at the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Tate Modern in London.In addition to Ms. Burke, a mental health clinician and human rights activist, Ms. Hammer is survived by her sister, Marcia Ebert.In 2006, Ms. Hammer received a diagnosis of Stage 3 ovarian cancer, which prompted her to make “A Horse Is Not a Metaphor” (2008), an intensely personal film that follows her to chemotherapy sessions that culminate with her remission and then shows her happily riding horses in Wyoming and New Mexico. She unflinchingly shows herself nude, losing her hair and receiving chemotherapy through a port in her abdomen.A retrospective of her work, “In This Body,” is scheduled to open on June 1 at the Wexner Center for the Arts at Ohio State University. It will feature a three-channel video installation of a new work, “Evidentiary Bodies,” an immersive synthesis of her career and her bouts with cancer. It includes images of her M.R.I. scans projected onto her body.Jennifer Lange, curator of the film and video studio at the museum, said of Ms. Hammer in a telephone interview: “Her works says, ‘Here is what a female body is: It menstruates, it has various pleasures, it gets old and wrinkly, but it remains incredibly vital, even in illness, with unique sensory and biological systems.’ ”AdvertisementSupported byDoctorsA chance encounter with a sand painting helped me learn how to doctor patients I knew I would lose.By Sunita Puri, M.D.As a palliative care doctor, I spend much of my time face-to-face with pain and suffering, debilitating disease and death. When I began my training, I thought I was comfortable with the idea of mortality, and with the notion that fighting death at all costs wasn’t the sole purpose of medicine. But I hadn’t expected that the type of medicine I’d chosen to practice would require a strength and perspective that medical training hadn’t offered. It was a chance encounter with a sand painting that helped me learn how to doctor patients I knew I would lose.At the time, I was in the middle of my yearlong fellowship in hospice and palliative medicine, seeing patients at a county hospital in San Jose. I’d immersed myself in learning how to treat patients living with serious illnesses: end-stage heart failure, widespread cancer and devastating strokes. I’d learned how to help families anticipate what dying looks like. It had become second nature to talk openly with patients about the severity of their diseases, and to ask them how we might work together to maximize joy, meaning and comfort in their waning lives.I hoped that projecting an acceptance of death and comfort with it might soothe my patients and their families. But I had grown progressively more anxious, and occasionally despondent. I didn’t understand why death had come for a 35-year-old mother of three with a rare and aggressive cancer, or why a marathon runner was dying after a sudden heart attack when he’d been a marathon runner.My parents, both Hindus, had taught me that understanding death as inevitable is necessary to appreciate the meaning and beauty of life. But knowing this didn’t make it any easier to lose patients within days of meeting them.One of my attending physicians noticed that I’d become more withdrawn, less punctual and occasionally distracted. “This is difficult work,” she told me gently, reminding me that I’d need to care for myself in order to care for my patients. I tried massages, therapy, hiking and meditating under the shade of Marin County redwoods. But when my sadness grew stronger, I longed for a place where I might find community among others searching for support. I found a Vietnamese Buddhist temple that was just a short drive from the hospital.There I whispered the Sanskrit and Punjabi prayers I’d learned as a child. Sometimes I approached the altar and spoke quietly to the statue of Buddha: Help me find the strength to do this work. Show me how. Please, take away my sadness.One evening, the temple’s main hall was unusually crowded. People had gathered around a group of Tibetan monks hunched over a table, where they were creating a sand mandala. Metal cups filled with sand of every conceivable color — bright pink, deep navy blue, silver, maroon and mustard yellow — lined one end of the table.I remembered my father pointing out a photo of a mandala in a museum years ago, explaining that its circular shape symbolized both the cyclical nature of birth and death and the indestructible nature of the universe. Using small scrapers and metal funnels, the monks methodically piped precise amounts of sand to create an intricate geometric pattern. That first evening, they painted a flower with multicolored petals. By the next evening, the flower was surrounded by circles of deep blue and pink and rectangles of turquoise and gold.The following Sunday morning, the temple was overflowing with people. We all looked on as the group of brightly robed monks surrounded the mandala and began to chant in low, guttural tones, their eyes closed and palms pressed together. I stood on my toes and craned my neck to glimpse the mandala, hoping to see it encased in glass. Instead, I looked on in shock as one of the monks began to move a feathery brush over the mandala, swirling together the gold and the navy, the circles and the rectangles. He moved along the edges of the table, sweeping away his work just as methodically as he had placed grains of sand in the same space, transforming the mandala from pattern to pile. Hot tears filled my eyes, not only because the mandala was gone, but because the hands that had created it were content to let it go.The Bhagavad Gita, which my father had read to me as a child, emphasizes that change is the law of the universe. The Vietnamese monk Thich Nhat Hanh reminds us that “impermanence does not necessarily lead to suffering. What makes us suffer is wanting things to be permanent when they are not.” Yet it was the sweeping away of a sand painting that helped me truly understand that change and impermanence are not just spiritual tenets but laws of nature — ones that I’d struggled against and had been taught to ignore throughout much of my medical training.Just as I’d expected that the gorgeous mandala had been created in order to be preserved, I had also expected that my patient in her 30s should live to see her children graduate from college, that the marathon runner should have lived to run more races. I’d expected, partly as a result of my medical training, to change and control what wasn’t necessarily mine to change and control. How might I doctor my dying patients differently if I remembered that everything worldly — a painstakingly crafted mandala, a sky ablaze with color, our fragile human lives — is also temporary and subject to change?Accepting that life is finite wouldn’t prevent me from drawing upon science to diagnose and treat disease, to use every tool available in medicine to alleviate suffering. But I wondered if it would make it easier for me to endure the inevitability of change and loss that both my patients and I would experience. Perhaps it could bring me solace to remember that just as my patients’ lives are temporary, so is their suffering.I wiped my eyes as I looked upon the remaining heap of swirled sand, itself a thing of great beauty. The monks scooped teaspoons of sand into plastic bags, handing one to each of us. Through the bag, the sand felt both tough and soft, the bright blues and pinks particularly visible when I held it up to the light.When I returned to the hospital the next day, I thought of the mandala as I sat with a breathless man my own age dying from lung cancer, and an agitated grandmother in the final stages of dementia. I would feel compassion for both of them, but I didn’t leave work that day consumed with grief, withdrawn and disengaged. By accepting my patients’ circumstances, rather than fixating on their inherent tragedy, I could focus instead on changing what I could: easing breathlessness and agitation, explaining hospice services to their despondent families.AdvertisementSupported byVoicesIt is no exaggeration to say that Mary Oliver gave me the blueprint, the road map, for the rest of my life.By Steven PetrowEighteen years ago, when I was 43, I drove the long and winding road from the Pacific Coast to Tassajara’s Zen Mountain Center, deep in the Carmel Valley. I spent a mostly silent week with seven others, meditating in the zendo, hiking in the Ventana wilderness and soaking in the sulfurous hot springs.I also passed those seven days reading Mary Oliver, the Pulitzer Prize-winning poet who died this week at the age of 83. It is no exaggeration to say that she gave me the blueprint, the road map, for the rest of my life. Mary Oliver taught me how to live.At the suggestion of our group leader, I bought a couple of Ms. Oliver’s books at the monastery’s little bookstore. I read her poems about nature — and oh yes, about dogs — silently in my yurt, by the river, and amid the snapdragons, pink roses and yellow asters. Had she been there herself, I could not have found myself more perfectly in tune with her words, her heart, her soul.It took me by surprise. Before that week, I’d never been much of one for poetry; poets seemed so esoteric, their work so highbrow. But that week changed my understanding of poetry. “It doesn’t feel like you have to take a seminar in order to understand Mary Oliver’s poetry,” Ruth Franklin wrote in The New Yorker in 2017. “She’s speaking directly to you as a human being.”Yes, that’s exactly how I felt that week when I read “When Death Comes,” one of Ms. Oliver’s best-known works. I recall distinctly how at the end of the silent retreat I was so excited not only to be able to speak again — but to talk about the final stanzas of that poem and what they meant to me:When it’s over, I want to say: all my life I was a bride married to amazement. I was the bridegroom, taking the world into my arms.When it’s over, I don’t want to wonder if I have made of my life something particular, and real. I don’t want to find myself sighing and frightened, or full of argument.I don’t want to end up simply having visited this world.In our group of eight, two of us were cancer survivors — a woman who had breast cancer, and me. In the 17 years since my diagnosis, I’d struggled to understand the lessons that accompany a life-threatening illness in a twenty-something. Sure, I tried to remember to “stop and smell the roses,” but other aphorisms, like “everything happens for a reason” or “when a door closes, a window opens” left me cold at best.I explained all that as we sat knee to knee, relishing our newfound voices, and then read Ms. Oliver’s lines out loud, especially focusing on the last one: “I don’t want to end up simply having visited this world.”The other cancer survivor was already a devotee of Ms. Oliver’s, and of that poem in particular. She said she’d taken it as her personal mantra. This was years before “mindfulness” became a thing, but my fellow traveler with cancer quoted another of Ms. Oliver’s lessons for living: “To pay attention, this is our endless and proper work.”That, too, was new to me, as I started to use not only my eyes, but my ears and even my nose, to pay attention: to see, to hear and to smell the world around me.In the many years since then, Mary Oliver’s gentle insistence that we do not end up “simply having visited this world” became my touchstone. When scared, I did my best to stand up to the fear (“I don’t want to find myself sighing and frightened…”).When my mother was diagnosed with cancer in 2013 and treated at the same hospital where I’d been treated, I had anticipatory flashbacks about entering those glass doors. But I understood that it was my turn to pay attention, to be there for her. I did my proper work, and through that labor of love Mom and I found a new level of understanding and connection.Recalling Ms. Oliver’s words, I chose not to stay in my marriage when I saw the light flaming out. I wanted to be “a bride married to amazement …. the bridegroom, taking the world into my arms.” My post-marriage life has not been entirely smooth traveling, but I am profoundly content to have chosen life over surrender, energy over inertia. Last year, after the divorce, surfing off the coast of Kona with my three nieces, I realized I’d never felt more alive, even when wiping out in the rough surf.Ms. Oliver liked to pose questions: tough, imponderable life questions. “She’s wise enough to compose the question but doesn’t answer them,” Steven Harper, a wilderness guide who had been our group leader all those years ago, told me on the phone the day she died, still using the present tense. “Her questions instruct me in some way how I can live my life.”Still, there’s no mistaking that “When Death Comes” also has taught me about life’s final chapter: Death. There’s no fear in her words; in fact, just the opposite as she embraces this natural next step, considering “eternity as another possibility.”“I want to step through the door full of curiosity, wondering: what is it going to be like, that cottage of darkness?” she writes. No pain. No fear. Curiosity! I can only wish that Ms. Oliver’s passage was all that she’d hoped for, all that she’d experienced here — observing the flowers, and dogs, and seasons of her lifetime.As we chatted on the phone, Mr. Harper reminded me of another of her poems, which Ms. Oliver ends with these life-altering questions:“Tell me, what else should I have done? Doesn’t everything die at last, and too soon? Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersHONG KONG — Hong Kong authorities said they seized 82.5 kilograms of rhino horn and cut pieces worth HK$16.5 million ($2.10 million), the biggest haul in five years, as the Chinese controlled territory tries to tackle growing trafficking in endangered species.The move comes after seizures by Hong Kong earlier this year of 40 kilograms of rhino horns, 8.3 tonnes of pangolin scales and more than 1000 ivory tusks.The former British colony is one of the world's primary wildlife trafficking transit points, supplying an array of products including shark fins, tiger parts and rhino horn across Asia and into mainland China.Customs officials said in a statement on Saturday that they screened cargo from South Africa with Malaysia as its destination. The cargo was declared as "auto parts" but suspicious X-ray images were found over it. Much of the trade supplies the traditional Chinese medicine sector. Highly valued rhino horn for instance is believed to treat issues from cancer to clearing toxins and curing hangovers.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A physician ally of Purdue Pharma LP whose views helped drive the explosive growth in the use of addictive pain relievers for common aches and pains in the United States has agreed to testify against the OxyContin maker and other drug companies, newly disclosed court records show.Dr. Russell Portenoy, a professor at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, was an early advocate for the use of opioids for chronic pain, a position he shared in medical journal articles, with regulators, at physician conferences and in other forums. He also was named as a defendant in some of the lawsuits filed by cities, counties and states seeking to hold opioid makers - including Endo and Mallinckrodt Plc - and their distributors liable for the cost of the U.S. opioid epidemic.But Portenoy began talking to plaintiffs' lawyers as early as January 2018 and later struck a deal with the plaintiffs to serve as a cooperating witness, the records show. In exchange for his dismissal from the suits, Portenoy provided the plaintiffs with documentation of opioid makers' payments to him over the years, as well as a 36-page declaration that lays out what he would say on the witness stand.Portenoy's previously confidential cooperation agreement and declaration were made public Friday as a part of a discovery ruling by David Cohen, a special master in the federal court in Cleveland, Ohio, where hundreds of the opioid lawsuits have been consolidated. In an email, Cohen said it was possible the records should have been filed under seal out of public view. Their disclosure offers a glimpse into the largely secretive evidence gathering phase of the litigation. Purdue executives have said the privately-held company is considering bankruptcy in the face of its potential liability. The company avoided having to stand as a defendant in a trial scheduled for May in Oklahoma by agreeing to pay the state $270 million.Portenoy could not be reached for comment. His lawyer did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment.Purdue spokesman Bob Josephson declined to comment on Portenoy's declaration and new role in the litigation. Other companies, including Endo and Mallinckrodt, did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Portenoy, who has held leadership positions at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Mount Sinai Beth Israel, was among the first physicians to espouse opioids as an option for the treatment of chronic pain, a condition that afflicts tens of millions of Americans, in medical journal articles published in the 1980s and 1990s. Later, he shared his views with physicians at conferences and in training videos sponsored by opioid makers, he said in the declaration.Previously, physicians had been trained to reserve opioids for cancer and end-of-life pain. Opioids are chemically similar to heroin and the risk of addiction was viewed as too great for their widespread use.In his declaration, Portenoy said he never altered his positions because of opioid makers' payments for research, speeches, consulting and other work. But, he said, the companies paid only for work that supported their interests and cited it selectively "to promote opioids by referencing the positive statements that I made repeatedly without providing the background, analysis of the literature, and cautions that accompanied these positive statements."These "unbalanced communications" encouraged the prescribing of opioids to patients unsuited for them and by physicians who lacked the skills to manage addiction, abuse and overdose, Portenoy said. All of this, he concluded, "contributed to the rising incidence of drug addiction and overdoses."Opioids are involved in about 50,000 deaths a year in the United States. In an effort to staunch the toll, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 2016 recommended against opioids as a first-line treatment for chronic pain.In a tentative decision issued on Friday, special master Cohen ruled that Portenoy may serve as a witness for the plaintiffs - just not in the first trial scheduled to take place in federal court in Cleveland later this year. Cohen was responding to a complaint from the defendant companies that they had inadequate notice of Portenoy's new role.AdvertisementSupported byMany Americans would welcome some traits of the island’s free, universal health care system. By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistHAVANA — Claudia Fernández, 29, is an accountant whose stomach bulges with her first child, a girl, who is due in April.Fernández lives in a cramped apartment on a potholed street and can’t afford a car. She also gets by without a meaningful vote or the right to speak freely about politics. Yet the paradox of Cuba is this: Her baby appears more likely to survive than if she were born in the United States.Cuba is poor and repressive with a dysfunctional economy, but in health care it does an impressive job that the United States could learn from. According to official statistics (about which, as we’ll see, there is some debate), the infant mortality rate in Cuba is only 4.0 deaths per 1,000 live births. In the United States, it’s 5.9.In other words, an American infant is, by official statistics, almost 50 percent more likely to die than a Cuban infant. By my calculations, that means that 7,500 American kids die each year because we don’t have as good an infant mortality rate as Cuba reports.How is this possible? Well, remember that it may not be. The figures should be taken with a dose of skepticism. Still, there’s no doubt that a major strength of the Cuban system is that it assures universal access. Cuba has the Medicare for All that many Americans dream about.“Cuba’s example is important since for decades ‘health care for all’ has been more than a slogan there,” said Dr. Paul Farmer, the legendary globe-trotting founder of Partners in Health. “Cuban families aren’t ruined financially by catastrophic illness or injury, as happens so often elsewhere in the neighborhood.”In Havana, I shadowed a grass-roots doctor, Lisett Rodríguez, as she paid a house call on Fernández — and it was the 20th time Dr. Rodríguez had dropped in on Fernández’s apartment to examine her over the six months of her pregnancy. That’s on top of 14 visits that Fernández made to the doctor’s office, in addition to pregnancy consultations Fernández held with a dentist, a psychologist and a nutritionist.This was all free, like the rest of the medical and dental system. It’s also notable that Cuba achieves excellent health outcomes even though the American trade and financial embargo badly damages the economy and restricts access to medical equipment.Fernández has received more attention than normal because she has hypothyroidism, making her pregnancy higher risk than average. Over the course of a more typical Cuban pregnancy, a woman might make 10 office visits and receive eight home visits.Thirty-four visits, or even 18, may be overkill, but this certainly is preferable to the care common in, say, Texas, where one-third of pregnant women don’t get a single prenatal checkup in the first trimester.Missing a prenatal checkup is much less likely in Cuba because of a system of front-line clinics called consultorios. These clinics, staffed by a single doctor and nurse, are often run down and poorly equipped, but they make health care readily available: Doctors live upstairs and are on hand after hours in emergencies.They are also part of the neighborhood. Dr. Rodríguez and her nurse know the 907 people they are responsible for from their consultorio: As I walked with Dr. Rodríguez on the street, neighbors stopped her and asked her about their complaints. This proximity and convenience, and not just the lack of fees, make Cuba’s medical system accessible.“It helps that the doctor is close, because transportation would be a problem,” Fernández told me.Home visits are also a chance to reach elderly and disabled people and to coach dysfunctional families, such as those wracked by alcoholism (a common problem), and to work on prevention. During Dr. Rodríguez’s visits to Fernández, for example, they discuss breast-feeding and how to make the home safe for the baby.“It’s no secret that most health problems can be resolved at the primary-care level by the doctor, nurse or health worker nearest you,” said Gail Reed, the American executive editor of the health journal Medicc Review, which focuses on Cuban health care. “So, there is something to be said for Cuba’s building of a national primary-care network that posts health professionals in neighborhoods nationwide.”Each consultorio doctor is supposed to see every person in the area at least once a year, if not for a formal physical then at least to take blood pressure.All this is possible because Cuba overflows with doctors — it has three times as many per capita as the United States — and pays them very little. A new doctor earns $45 a month, and a very experienced one $80.The opening of Cuba to tourism has created some tensions. A taxi driver who gets tips from foreigners may earn several times as much as a distinguished surgeon. Unless, of course, that surgeon also moonlights as a taxi driver.Critics inside and outside the country raise various objections to the Cuban system. Corruption and shortages of supplies and medicine are significant problems, and the health system could do more to address smoking and alcoholism.There are also allegations that Cuba fiddles with its numbers. The country has an unusually high rate of late fetal deaths, and skeptics contend that when a baby is born in distress and dies after a few hours, this is sometimes categorized as a stillbirth to avoid recording an infant death. Dr. Roberto Álvarez, a Cuban pediatrician, insisted to me that this does not happen and countered with explanations for why the fetal death rate is high. I’m not in a position to judge who’s right, but any manipulation seems unlikely to make a huge difference to the reported figures.Outsiders mostly say they admire the Cuban health system. The World Health Organization has praised it, and Ban Ki-moon, the former United Nations secretary general, described it as “a model for many countries.”In many ways, the Cuban and United States health care systems are mirror opposites. Cuban health care is dilapidated, low-tech and free, and it is very good at ensuring that no one slips through the cracks. American medicine is high-tech and expensive, achieving some extraordinary results while stumbling at the basics: A lower percentage of children are vaccinated in the United States than in Cuba.The difference can also be seen in treatment of cancer. Cuba regularly screens all women for breast and cervical cancer, so it is excellent at finding cancers — but then it lacks enough machines for radiation treatment. In the United States, on the other hand, many women don’t get regular screenings so cancers may be discovered late — but then there are advanced treatment options.As Cuba’s population becomes older and heavier (as in the United States, the nutrition problem here is people who are overweight, not underweight), heart disease and cancer are becoming more of a burden. And the lack of resources is a major constraint in treating those ailments.There’s a Cuban saying: “We live like poor people, but we die like rich people.”Cuba invests heavily in health care partly because it’s a moneymaker. Cuba exports doctors to other countries, and this has become an important source of hard currency (the doctors earn a premium while abroad, but much of the surplus goes to the government).With its doctors, Cuba creates a global public good: I’ve encountered Cuban physicians in impoverished countries around the world, and Cuba also trains many doctors from Haiti and other countries. Hundreds of Cuban physicians also risked their lives to travel to West Africa during the Ebola crisis.Cuba has developed its own pharmaceutical industry, partly to get around the American embargo, and this also creates financial opportunities. A lung cancer medication from Cuba is now undergoing a clinical trial in the United States, and a similar U.S.-Cuba partnership is pursuing a Cuban treatment for diabetic foot ulcers. To me, those partnerships represent a path toward cooperation that both sides should build on.While we should call on Cuba to grant people like Fernández meaningful political rights, we should likewise push for American babies born in low-income families to have the same opportunity for attentive health care as her daughter will have.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - A physician ally of Purdue Pharma LP whose views helped drive the explosive growth in the use of addictive pain relievers for common aches and pains in the United States has agreed to testify against the OxyContin maker and other drug companies, newly disclosed court records show.Dr. Russell Portenoy, a professor at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, was an early advocate for the use of opioids for chronic pain, a position he shared in medical journal articles, with regulators, at physician conferences and in other forums. He also was named as a defendant in some of the lawsuits filed by cities, counties and states seeking to hold opioid makers - including Endo and Mallinckrodt Plc - and their distributors liable for the cost of the U.S. opioid epidemic.But Portenoy began talking to plaintiffs' lawyers as early as January 2018 and later struck a deal with the plaintiffs to serve as a cooperating witness, the records show. In exchange for his dismissal from the suits, Portenoy provided the plaintiffs with documentation of opioid makers' payments to him over the years, as well as a 36-page declaration that lays out what he would say on the witness stand.Portenoy's previously confidential cooperation agreement and declaration were made public Friday as a part of a discovery ruling by David Cohen, a special master in the federal court in Cleveland, Ohio, where hundreds of the opioid lawsuits have been consolidated. In an email, Cohen said it was possible the records should have been filed under seal out of public view. Their disclosure offers a glimpse into the largely secretive evidence gathering phase of the litigation. Purdue executives have said the privately-held company is considering bankruptcy in the face of its potential liability. The company avoided having to stand as a defendant in a trial scheduled for May in Oklahoma by agreeing to pay the state $270 million.Portenoy could not be reached for comment. His lawyer did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment.Purdue spokesman Bob Josephson declined to comment on Portenoy's declaration and new role in the litigation. Other companies, including Endo and Mallinckrodt, did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Portenoy, who has held leadership positions at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and Mount Sinai Beth Israel, was among the first physicians to espouse opioids as an option for the treatment of chronic pain, a condition that afflicts tens of millions of Americans, in medical journal articles published in the 1980s and 1990s. Later, he shared his views with physicians at conferences and in training videos sponsored by opioid makers, he said in the declaration.Previously, physicians had been trained to reserve opioids for cancer and end-of-life pain. Opioids are chemically similar to heroin and the risk of addiction was viewed as too great for their widespread use.In his declaration, Portenoy said he never altered his positions because of opioid makers' payments for research, speeches, consulting and other work. But, he said, the companies paid only for work that supported their interests and cited it selectively "to promote opioids by referencing the positive statements that I made repeatedly without providing the background, analysis of the literature, and cautions that accompanied these positive statements."These "unbalanced communications" encouraged the prescribing of opioids to patients unsuited for them and by physicians who lacked the skills to manage addiction, abuse and overdose, Portenoy said. All of this, he concluded, "contributed to the rising incidence of drug addiction and overdoses."Opioids are involved in about 50,000 deaths a year in the United States. In an effort to staunch the toll, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 2016 recommended against opioids as a first-line treatment for chronic pain.In a tentative decision issued on Friday, special master Cohen ruled that Portenoy may serve as a witness for the plaintiffs - just not in the first trial scheduled to take place in federal court in Cleveland later this year. Cohen was responding to a complaint from the defendant companies that they had inadequate notice of Portenoy's new role.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Stocks that moved substantially or traded heavily on Wednesday:GameStop Corp., down 47 cents to $9.63The video game retailer's first-quarter profit and revenue fell short of analysts' expectations and it gave investors a weak forecast.Dave & Buster's Entertainment Inc., up $2.47 to $52.95The restaurant and arcade chain's fourth-quarter profit and a key sales measure blew past Wall Street expectations.Advanced Micro Devices Inc., up $2.27 to $29.02The chipmaker and its rivals gained on media reports that orders for smartphone chips are higher so far this quarter.Intel Corp., up $1.12 to $55.48The chipmaker named George Davis its new chief financial officer, after hiring him away from rival Qualcomm.Blue Apron Holdings Inc., up 7 cents to $1.04The meal-kit seller's CEO is resigning and will be replaced by a former Etsy Inc. executive.Nektar Therapeutics Inc., up $1.59 to $35.29The biotechnology company presented a series of positive early studies for potential cancer treatments.Acuity Brands Inc., up $10.90 to $134.79The lighting maker beat Wall Street's profit forecasts for the fiscal second quarter.AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders disagree about the value of “looking death in the eye.”To the Editor:In “At 40, Looking Death in the Eye” (Sunday Review, March 24), Michael David Lukas captured the transcendence of thought that helped me start to process the death of my son at 44. After 25 “bonus years” in remission for Hodgkin’s, my son succumbed to radiation-induced lung cancer just as he was hitting the prime of his life.I treasure the time that we did have and all that we packed into those bonus years. It’s still never easy, but I focus more on things that we did and less on mourning over what wasn’t and what might have been. Mr. Lukas’s article was like a strong hug from someone who genuinely understands. Thinking that “not everything happens for a reason” was a solid step in my continuing process of moving forward.Judy BortmanBasking Ridge, N.J.To the Editor:Michael David Lukas’s view that “it’s oddly comforting … to look mortality in the eye” could hardly be more in tune with today’s conventional wisdom. It’s time to air an alternative view. At 71, I find nothing comforting about looking the unmitigated evil of mortality in the eye. I’ll maintain to my last breathAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersFRANKFURT — Bayer said on Friday it would comply with a U.S. federal judge's order to enter mediation with a plaintiff who claims the company failed to warn against an alleged cancer risk from its Roundup weedkiller.Bayer has seen billions wiped off its market value since August, when a first U.S. jury found Bayer liable because Monsanto, acquired by Bayer for $63 billion last year, had not warned of the alleged risk from Roundup, which is based on active ingredient glyphosate.It suffered a similar courtroom defeat last month and more than 10,000 cases are pending.U.S. District Judge Vince Chhabria, who presided over the first two cases in federal court, said in a filing dated Thursday that Bayer and another plaintiff, Elaine Stevick, were ordered to start confidential mediation."The parties should propose a mediator in their case management statement; if they cannot agree, the Court will appoint someone," the judge ordered, cancelling a previously scheduled May 20 trial date.Bayer said on Friday it would comply with the order in good faith, while believing strongly in the "extensive body of reliable science supporting the safety of Roundup".AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirVonda N. McIntyre, a science-fiction writer whose tales featured female protagonists — among them the healer in a post-apocalyptic earth who cures the ill with snake venom — and who also wrote five “Star Trek” novels, died on Monday at her home in Seattle. She was 70.Frances Collin, her agent, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.When Ms. McIntyre began reading science fiction as a young girl, male writers dominated the genre. By her 30s, she was one of the category’s leading women, following a path established by Ursula K. Le Guin, Kate Wilhelm and Anne McCaffrey. She then became an inspiring mentor to many younger female writers.“The modern feminist movement was just gaining steam,” Ms. McIntyre recalled in 2010 in an interview with Gizmodo. “And there was a lot of controversy in science fiction about whether women should have anything to do with science fiction at all, which I actually found quite hurtful.”Ms. McIntyre graduated from the University of Washington with a bachelor’s degree in biology in 1970 and studied genetics there as a postgraduate until ending her studies in 1971. Using her education to illuminate her science fiction proved more alluring than being a research scientist.A short story, “Of Mist, Grass, and Sand” (1973), introduced readers to Snake, a healer who travels to remote lands after a nuclear holocaust to heal sick people with venom from her genetically engineered rattlesnake (Sand) and cobra (Mist), and to ease their pain with her rare alien dreamsnake (Grass). Snake is asked to save the life of a young nomad boy, Stavin, who has a brain tumor.“The cobra reared and struck, biting as cobras bite, sinking her fangs their short length once, releasing, instantly biting again for better purchase, holding on, chewing at her prey,” Ms. McIntyre wrote. “Stavin cried out, but he did not move against Snake’s restraining hands. Mist expended the contents of her venom sacs in the child and released him.”When Stavin asks if he will die, Snake reassuringly tells him: “No, not now. Not for many years, I hope.”Ms. McIntyre’s story won a Nebula Award in 1973 for best novelette from Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America, competing against veteran male writers like Harlan Ellison and Theodore Sturgeon. When she expanded the story into a dark novel about Snake’s continuing quests, “Dreamsnake”(1978), she won another Nebula and a Hugo Award from the World Science Fiction Society.In an article in The Guardian in 2012 about the women whose books have won Hugos, the writer Sam Jordison praised “Dreamsnake” as a “feminist — and determinedly feminine” novel that features a protagonist focused on saving lives rather than “kicking butt.”He added, “It’s a challenging, unsettling book and a long way from the macho swashbuckling that some people still think typifies SF.”As Ms. McIntyre continued to write novels and short stories, she became known as a mentor through her founding in the 1970s of the Clarion West writers’ workshop in Seattle (where her friendship with Ms. Le Guin flowered). She encouraged many writers, mostly women, over the decades.“She was one of the women who made me think I could write science fiction,” Nisi Shawl, the author of “Everfair” (2016), an alternate-history novel, said in a telephone interview. “She was instrumental in theorizing about birth control and sexual consent in the future, and she grounded her feminist concerns in scientific realities. That was amazing.”With “The Moon and the Sun” (1997), Ms. McIntyre took on alternate history and speculation about human evolution.The novel is set in France during the reign of King Louis XIV, who sends a priest-philosopher on a mission to capture sea monsters in the hope of bringing back the secret to immortality. The priest returns with two creatures: a dead male monster and a live mermaid-like female who has human features but twin tails, webbed fingers and toes, and who communicates in an eerie singing language. The priest’s sister tries to free the creature.Kirkus Reviews called “The Moon and the Sun” — which also won a Nebula — “an enchanting slice of what-if speculation.”Vonda Neel McIntyre was born on Aug. 28, 1948, in Louisville, Ky., and moved to the Seattle area with her parents, H. Neel McIntyre, and Vonda (Keith) McIntyre, as a teenager. She began reading science fiction in the 1950s but could not always relate to the male-centered stories written by men. By 1966, as “Star Trek” began its three-season run on NBC, she found a passion.She said on several occasions that she began writing a “Star Trek” script as she watched the first episode in 1966.The script was rejected, but she eventually turned it into “The Entropy Effect” (1981), an original “Star Trek” novel.A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2019Now a part of the Trekkie literary universe, she was hired by Pocket Books to write the novelizations of the films “Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan,” “Star Trek III: The Search for Spock” and “Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home,” all based on their screenplays.She also wrote another original “Star Trek” novel, “Enterprise: The First Adventure” (1986).Fonda Lee, whose action-adventure science-fiction novels include “Jade City” (2018), said Ms. McIntyre’s “Star Trek” novelizations motivated her as a teenager to read Isaac Asimov, Ray Bradbury and Ms. McCaffrey.“I once confessed that I’d considered whether to write under a male or gender-neutral pseudonym,” Ms. Lee said by email. “Vonda’s reaction to me was blunt, ‘Don’t do it.’ She was rightfully proud of the strides that authors like her friend Ursula Le Guin and she had made in proving women to be a force in the field of speculative fiction.”Ms. McIntyre leaves no immediate survivors. Her sister, Carolyn McIntyre, died last year, also of pancreatic cancer.When Ms. McIntyre herself received a diagnosis of Stage 4 pancreatic cancer in early February, she felt driven to finish her final novel.“Vonda is pleased with progress on her book,” her friend, Jane Hawkins, wrote on the CaringBridge website on March 18. “She said yesterday that while she will continue to work on it, she wouldn’t be embarrassed to see it published as is.”On March 21, Ms. Hawkins provided an emphatic update.“Vonda has finished ‘Curve of the World’!” she wrote.AdvertisementSupported byLiving With CancerAs a patient who grappled with an ostomy, I grieved the suicide of a 10-year-old whose family said he was bullied for having one.By Susan GubarWe don’t always know the people we mourn. This winter, an online message board for people with ostomies filled with comments deploring heartbreaking news from Kentucky. A 10-year-old boy named Seven Bridges took his life in January, apparently because of bullying related to his having had a colostomy.This child has something to teach those of us stunned by his death, I thought. But what?Seven was born with a birth defect that necessitated multiple surgeries, including a colostomy: a piece of the colon pulled through the abdominal wall to create what is called a stoma. Stool, moving from the intestine through the stoma, collects in a pouch attached to the belly. News reports said that Seven had the procedure reversed but continued to have trouble with leakage. His parents, Tami Charles and Donnie Bridges, told reporters that resulting odors triggered classmates’ aggression.More specifically, they say that schoolmates subjected Seven, who was African-American, to racist insults and choking. They had lodged complaints with the school and were looking forward to his making a fresh start in a new school for the sixth grade.But the damage took its toll before he had a chance to try: He hanged himself.It is impossible to register the horror of that event.Children with disabilities are often targeted by bullies. What courage Seven must have evinced in his elementary school years, I marvel while recalling how disoriented I initially felt living with a stoma. An ostomy abrogates our fundamental assumption of bodily autonomy.I was 64 when ovarian cancer necessitated an ileostomy, an operation involving the small intestine. The act of excretion could no longer be controlled. Evacuation occurs incessantly, from the front of the body. What should be inside and hidden — a bit of intestine — is outside and visible. Learning how to clean myself and replace the pouch required the supervision of a home nurse. I dreaded leaks.Wasn’t I too well schooled to be ashamed of a medical intervention that saved my life? No, not really. Self-loathing had me in its grip. Although hidden beneath clothing, the stoma made me feel defective. Even if Seven had found strategies to mitigate the self-shame that clamped down on me, the shame inflicted by others would have been appalling. Shaming is most effective with those liable to internalize it. Bullies frequently target schoolmates who have labored against feeling humiliated by whatever difference might mark them: looking fat or skinny, short or tall, foreign or queer. All sorts of differences must be negotiated by all of our children at their, and our, peril.However, the difference manifested by an ostomy remains so taboo that it horrifies even educated adults. “I would rather be dead,” people say about the prospect of a bag. Excrement is conflated with the stink of mortality, the waste to which we will be reduced after death. For this reason, ostomies generally remain shrouded in secrecy. They are not easy to address.The fate of Seven Bridges leads me to reconsider the objections of a reader of my book “Memoir of a Debulked Woman,” who was angered by my account of the mortification I experienced after ostomy surgery.Like many people with stomas, she prided herself on being a happy, productive individual. Ostomies, which relieve terrible abdominal pain as well as recurrent and debilitating diarrhea or constipation, free patients to actively pursue fulfilling goals. My testimony, she argued, would unduly alarm and harm those facing this operation.Is shame so toxic an emotion that articulating it promotes it? Yes, I concede, shame may be contagious. In an effort to grapple with my shame, I express it and you, recognizing our commonality, catch it. Ought I therefore be ashamed of my shame and stifle its expressions?But silence can intensify shame, just as shame can intensify silence. On the school bus, it fails to wrest language from bullies who engage in shaming.Regrettably, unashamed language sometimes also backfires. If a school counselor had instructed Seven’s classmates on his medical state — would he have wanted that? — they might have empathized with him. Or they might have misused the conveyed information to hone their attacks. Perhaps we need more talk in schools not about victims but about bullies whose abusive behavior wards off intimations of their own abiding sense of shame.In fact, though, Seven’s story focuses my attention on the often invisible burdens of children, adolescents, adults and seniors who undergo temporary or permanent ostomies: those born with congenital birth defects as well as those dealing with injuries or with inflammatory bowel disease, ulcerative colitis, diverticulitis, Crohn’s disease, or bladder, colorectal and gynecological cancers. About 500,000 Americans.Seven’s story discloses the vicious vise of shame and the need for resources to escape it.Instantly I go into didactic overdrive. Younger and older patients should be encouraged to meet periodically with mentors — ostomy nurses (bless them!) tend to be brilliant, but seasoned patients as well — who can assist with the physical, psychological and social trials that arise. Seven Bridges did not have the time to discover that the longer one lives with a stoma, the easier it becomes … partly because of the information, advice and camaraderie now available online.After notices of his death appeared on news outlets, teens and young adults who had undergone ostomy operations began conveying their condolences and promoting body acceptance by recounting their own struggles with shame. On Instagram, under the hashtag #BagsOutforSeven, some shared photos of themselves with pouches. Their brazen dignity rebuffs not only stoma stigma but also the practice of stigmatizing any sort of physical difference.AdvertisementSupported byJuli Nicole Weiner and Michael Mendel Grynbaum were married March 23 at the National Arts Club in New York. Steven Chaiken, a friend of the couple who became a Universal Life minister for the event, officiated, with Simon Vozick-Levinson taking part in the ceremony.The bride, 30, is a writer for HBO’s “Last Week Tonight With John Oliver,” for which she has won Emmy awards in the Outstanding Writing for a Variety Series category and Peabody Awards in the Entertainment Programming category. She graduated from Barnard College.She is the daughter of Nansi Weiner and Dr. Bruce Weiner of Maple Glen, Pa. The bride’s father, a surgeon specializing in breast cancer, is the director of the Breast Health Center at Phoenixville Hospital in Phoenixville, Pa.The groom, 34, is a media correspondent for The New York Times. He graduated magna cum laude from Harvard.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

FEB. 8, 2019

Men who lived alone tended to die earlier than those who didn't, particularly from this cause: CancerCardiovascular diseaseDiabetesAlzheimer's diseaseVeterinarians say that nearly half the dogs they see are overweight or obese. What percent of owners acknowledge their pets are fat?8 percent17 percent26 percent44 percentA shortage of the drug buspirone has left patients distressed because there are no good substitutes. Buspirone is used to treat:DiabetesHigh blood pressureAnxietyMigrainesMen who exercised a lot — the equivalent of running about six miles a day — showed these heart changes:High levels of calcium in the arteriesBuildup of arterial plaquesA decreased risk of heart attackAll of the aboveCompared to poorer Americans, wealthy Americans were more likely to buy all of the following medications except:AntibioticsBotox injectionsDrugs for mental health disordersBirth control pillsA large review of studies found that this vitamin may help ward off dementia:B vitaminsVitamin CVitamin DThe review found that no vitamin or mineral supplements were proven effective to boost brain healthScreen use at bedtime may impair children's quality of life, a new study found. Screen use was particularly disruptive:When the lights were onIn a dark roomAdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Sevilla coach Joaquin Caparros revealed after his side's 2-0 win at Real Valladolid on Sunday that he had been diagnosed with leukaemia but vowed to continue in his job."Everyone knows I have Sevilla in my blood but there has been a problem with my white and red blood cells and I have been told that I have chronic leukaemia," Caparros, 63, told a news conference."It does not impede me from doing my job and I'm carrying out a normal life day to day. I am not receiving any treatment so everyone should remain calm. "I want to keep enjoying my job and I thank the club for allowing me to continue with this opportunity. I'm not going to talk any more about this."Caparros took charge of Sevilla for the third time last month by switching role from sporting director to head coach after Pablo Machin was sacked.His side climbed to fifth place in La Liga after the win at Valladolid which lifted their hopes of qualifying for the Champions League by taking them to within one point of fourth-placed Getafe.AdvertisementSupported byDr. Kaartiga Sivanesan and Rajiv Menjoge are to be married Jan. 20 in Orlando, Fla. Pandit Ashok Shukla, a Hindu priest, is to officiate at the Gaylord Palms Resort.Dr. Sivanesan, 34, is a cardiologist at Palo Alto Medical Foundation in Palo Alto, Calif. She graduated from Harvard and received both a medical degree and M.B.A. from Vanderbilt.She is the daughter of Renuka B. Sivanesan and Dr. Siva Sivanesan of Windermere, Fla. The bride’s father is an emergency room physician at Florida Hospital Orlando and a former president of the Orange County Medical Society in Orlando. Her mother is a former chairwoman of the Florida Hospital Golden Gala, a fund-raising event that benefits programs and patient treatment options at the Florida Hospital Cancer Institute in Orlando.Dr. Menjoge, 35, is a data scientist on the research and machine intelligence team for Google, where he works in the artificial intelligence division in Mountain View, Calif. He graduated summa cum laude from Dartmouth, and received a Ph.D. in operations research from M.I.T.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressHAMBURG, Iowa — Washington Gov. Jay Inslee recently toured this waterlogged town near the Missouri River, blasting President Donald Trump as complicit in the flooding that has plagued large swaths of western Iowa in recent weeks."We have a president who says that climate change is a hoax," said Inslee, who has centered his 2020 Democratic presidential campaign around the consequences of a warming planet. "He has diminished the ability of the federal government to protect its citizens, and that's an outrage."Inslee is virtually alone among his fellow presidential contenders in touring sections of Iowa devastated by flooding. Although there are more than a dozen declared candidates in the race for the White House, only Inslee and Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar have visited the flooded sections.New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand will visit the area on Wednesday and participate in a Senate committee field hearing on the issue.Most of the other contenders make passing mention of the flooding at campaign events, expressing their condolences to victims and emphasizing the need to combat climate change or invest in infrastructure. But the relative silence from other candidates highlights the bind many of them are in as local issues and presidential politics collide in the nation's leadoff caucus state.Several candidates who are also senators voted against legislation recently that would have directed some disaster relief to Iowa. They have argued the measure didn't provide enough money for Puerto Rico, which is still recovering from a massive hurricane.As additional flooding is expected in the coming weeks, Republicans have seized on the Democratic opposition to paint the 2020 contenders as disingenuous.There's "plenty of time for politics when 2020 comes around," Vice President Mike Pence told an audience in Pacific Junction last week after surveying flood damage there. "Right now, Iowa needs disaster assistance. And it's time for Congress to act.""When they come out here, I don't even see how they can show their face west of Des Moines given the fact they voted no" on the bill, Iowa Republican Party Chairman Jeff Kaufman said of the senators running for president.Gillibrand along with Sens. Cory Booker, Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders — all presidential candidates — voted against the bill but have noted the flooding at campaign events.The White House hopefuls would much rather talk about another Iowa issue: wind energy. Trump's recent erroneous claim that noise from wind turbines causes cancer amounted to something of a political gift for Democratic candidates.In a state where wind energy made up 37% of the state's energy in 2017, there is broad, bipartisan agreement that the president's comments were misinformed. He received a rebuke from the state's two Republican senators, with Sen. Chuck Grassley calling the comments "idiotic."For some 2020 candidates, like former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke, who's been criticized for a lack of policy detail, Trump presented an opportunity to showcase their policy bona fides. He frequently touts the 37% figure at campaign events and quipped, "I don't think that wind turbines cause cancer ... in fact, I think they cause jobs," at a recent campaign event.At a town hall in Powesheik, Iowa, earlier this month, Sanders joked that "we were a little bit nervous about coming back to Iowa 'cause you've got all these wind turbines all over the place!"The decision to avoid flood-stricken areas may ultimately come down to politics. Many of the most severely flooded counties, including the two that Klobuchar and Inslee visited, voted Republican in the last presidential election and may not be home to many Democratic caucusgoers compared to more urban regions such as Des Moines and Sioux Falls.In Hamburg, a town of fewer than 1,100 people, some of the residents weren't impressed by Inslee's visit — or his message. Ronald Wayne Perry, the 69-year-old owner of an auto repair shop the governor visited when he toured the town, blames the flooding on the Army Corps of Engineers for not managing the floodwaters properly — "and so does everybody in this town," he said."Climate change didn't have anything to do with this," he added. "It snows here a lot every time. Just basically the same thing that happened here this year happened a few years ago."AdvertisementSupported by“The optimal intake of these drinks is zero,” said one expert. “They have no health benefits.”By Nicholas BakalarDrinking sugary beverages is associated with a slightly increased risk for early death, a new study has found.Researchers used data from two large continuing health studies begun in the 1980s that include more than 118,000 men and women. Among many other health, behavioral and diet characteristics, the researchers collected data about their consumption of sugar-sweetened beverages, including noncarbonated fruit punches, lemonades and other sugary fruit drinks.Over about 30 years, there were 36,436 deaths. The more sugar-sweetened drinks people consumed, the higher their risk for death. After controlling for many health, behavioral and dietary characteristics, the researchers found that each additional daily 12-ounce serving of sugary drinks was associated with a 7 percent increased risk for death from any cause, a 5 percent increased risk for cancer death, and a 10 percent increased risk for death from cardiovascular disease. The study appears in the journal Circulation.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard A. Oppel Jr.Given who she really was, military officials had little choice in how they described Shannon Kent. They said only that she was a “cryptologic technician,” which anyone might assume meant that her most breakneck work was behind a desk.In reality, she spent much of her professional life wearing body armor and toting an M4 rifle, a Sig Sauer pistol strapped to her thigh, on operations with Navy SEALs and other elite forces — until a suicide bombing took her life last month in northeastern Syria.She was, in all but name, part of the military’s top-tier Special Operations forces. Officially a chief petty officer in the Navy, she actually worked closely with the nation’s most secretive intelligence outfit, the National Security Agency, to target leaders of the Islamic State.The last few years have seen a profound shift in attitudes toward women in combat roles. Since 2016, combat jobs have been open to female service members, and they have been permitted to try out for Special Operations units. More than a dozen have completed the Army’s Ranger school, one of the most challenging in the military. Some have graduated from infantry officer courses, and even command combat units. And in November, a woman completed the Army’s grueling Special Forces Assessment and Selection course, the initial step to becoming a Green Beret.[Get a weekly roundup of Times coverage of war delivered to your inbox. Sign up here.]Yet Chief Kent illustrates an unspoken truth: that for many years women have been doing military jobs as dangerous, secretive and specialized as anything men do.She would sometimes muse that conversation — even with people who had top security clearances — would be simpler if she could just join a Special Operations unit.“She’d tell me, ‘You can say what you do in two words, but I have to explain over and over to people what I do, and half of them don’t believe me,’” said her husband, Joe Kent, who recently retired after a 20-year career in the special forces. “As the years went on, she wished she could just say, ‘Hey, I’m Joe, and I’m a Green Beret.’”“In many ways, she did way more than any of us who have a funny green hat.”Only in death can friends and family talk about a life that showed just how far women had quietly advanced into the nucleus of the nation’s most elite forces.“Her job was to go out and blend her knowledge of cryptology and sigint and humint to help the task force find the right guys to paint the ‘X’ on for a strike or a raid,” Mr. Kent said.Cryptology is code breaking; sigint is signals intelligence, like intercepting and interpreting phone calls and other communications; humint is human intelligence, the art of persuading people, against their instincts, to provide information.At 35, Shannon Kent was expert in all three. Her husband credits a knack for gleaning information picked up from her father, a lifelong police officer.“She understood how all the pieces came together,” he said. “She wasn’t just relying on local informants. She knew how to fill in the gaps through her knowledge of different intelligence capabilities. She was kind of a one-stop-shop for finding bad guys.”Chief Kent spoke a half-dozen Arabic dialects and four other languages. She was one of the first women to complete the rigorous course required for other troops to accompany Navy SEALs on raids. She could run a 3:30 marathon, do a dozen full-arm-hang pull-ups and march for miles with a 50-pound rucksack.She did this while raising two boys, now ages 3 and 18 months, and, for a time, battling cancer.She used her five overseas combat deployments to master the collection of human intelligence, gaining the trust of tribal leaders, merchants, and local government officials who confided in her, often at great risk to themselves.That is the kind of mission she had been on Jan. 16, when a bomber killed her and three other Americans at a restaurant in Manbij, Syria. The Islamic State claimed credit for the attack. She became the first female service member to die in Syria since American forces arrived in 2015.More than 1,000 people attended Chief Kent’s memorial service on Friday at the United States Naval Academy Chapel in Annapolis, Md., where she was posthumously promoted to senior chief petty officer and awarded five medals and citations. The awards described her Special Operations work and also said she had been the noncommissioned officer in charge at the N.S.A.’s operations directorate for four years.She had enlisted for the same reasons and around the same time as many of her female peers: after Sept. 11. (Her father, a New York State Police commander, and her uncle, a firefighter, both responded to the attacks.)By the time the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan were reaching their highest pitch, women had been trained as intelligence collectors, linguists, interrogators and other specialties that put them on the front lines.That Chief Kent’s last assignment was in northeastern Syria, where American forces work with the Kurdish militia was fitting: there are many female fighters and commanders in the Kurdish forces.“Women have been on the front lines with special operators for 16 years,” said Gayle Tzemach Lemmon, author of a book about female troops working with elite forces in the combat zones of Afghanistan. “But because that community is unseen and so rarely talks about their work, it’s been hard to know how much women have done.”Chief Kent developed skills that have become critical over the last two decades, including the immediate exploitation of documents, hard drives and other intelligence found during raids, and sophisticated methods of targeting that combined eavesdropping, human intelligence and relationship mapping.In her first combat rotation, in 2007, she worked with the Joint Special Operations Command in Balad, Iraq. She did two more rotations in Iraq before a long stint at a remote outpost in Zabul Province, Afghanistan, in 2012, where she won awards for being a top human intelligence collector and linguist.Early in her career her language skills and easy manner had made her good at “tactical questioning” of people during missions. “That was her foot in the door,” Mr. Kent said.“Back then I don’t think SEALs were enthusiastic about talking to locals, and Shannon found a place where she could be of value, and she poured her heart and soul into it,” he said.The Kents first met during intelligence targeting training at Fort Belvoir, Va., where Mr. Kent had been assigned to an Army Special Operations command after seven deployments to Iraq. They were married Christmas Eve 2014.“We got set up by another girl who does the same stuff,” Mr. Kent said. “It’s a pretty insular type of community, and we had similar life experiences.”But for a cancer diagnosis — and the Pentagon bureaucracy — Chief Kent would not even have been in Syria.After so many hard missions and becoming a mother, she had decided to become a clinical psychologist and treat veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder.That meant becoming a Navy officer and spending six years studying and training. She was scheduled to go to the Navy’s Officer Development School in Rhode Island last June, and to begin her classes for her Ph.D. in the fall.But she had been diagnosed with thyroid cancer in 2016. She told her husband, then on a deployment, only after the surgery was successful.“She just sent me a picture of her throat scar and said, ‘I had a little cancer, but I got it cut out. I didn’t want to bug you,’” Mr. Kent said.Even though she was considered cancer-free, the military’s rules blocked her from becoming a commissioned officer. But the rules still allowed her to deploy to the most hard-fought combat zones.She pressed her case with Congressional representatives, and her husband followed up with the Navy after her death. This week, the Navy modified its rules to make it easier for enlisted service members who wish to become officers to petition for medical waivers.“The Navy fixed everything that kind of screwed Shannon,” Mr. Kent said.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersQuarterback Russell Wilson has told the Seattle Seahawks that he wants a new contract by April 15, the first day of the offseason workout program, the Seattle Times reported Tuesday.It is believed Wilson's side and the Seahawks have met recently.Wilson, 30, is entering the final year of a four-year, $87.6 million contract signed July 31, 2015, and he is scheduled to earn a base salary of $17 million in the 2019 season.While the Seahawks tend to finalize contracts the summer before the season begins, Wilson wants to move up the timeline to remove the distractions of contract talks like the ones he endured before signing in 2015.--The New England Patriots and newly acquired Michael Bennett agreed on a reworked contract that gives the defensive lineman a raise heading into the 2019 season, ESPN reported.The base value of the final two years of Bennett's contract increases from $15.7 million to $16.75 million and includes a $4 million signing bonus, according to the report. Bennett, 33, will earn $3 million this season with $1.5 million in per-game roster bonuses. He stands to earn a base of $7 million in 2020.The move also frees up about $700,000 in cap space for the Patriots this season, giving the club $18 million overall.--The Denver Broncos began their offseason workout program without Pro Bowl cornerback Chris Harris Jr.The conditioning program is voluntary, but Harris' absence is noteworthy because the eight-year veteran has never previously skipped a voluntary workout.The Broncos exercised their $1 million option on Harris last month and the 29-year-old has one year and $7.8 million remaining on his contract. His no-show most likely indicates he wants to see his contract extended sooner rather than later.--Houston Texans safety and cancer survivor Andre Hal announced his retirement, saying his decision was not health-related.Hal was diagnosed last June with Hodgkin lymphoma after experiencing blurry vision while practicing. Four months later, with the cancer in remission, he returned to the Texans and played in eight regular-season games and their playoff loss to the Indianapolis Colts."My health did not have anything to do with my decision," Hal wrote Tuesday. "I am completely healthy. Thank you to the Houston Texans organization for giving me the opportunity to live my childhood dream. I also want to thank my family and friends for all of their support. I truly appreciate it."--The Texans have hired Jack Easterby, the Patriots' former "character" coach, as their executive vice president of team development, the team announced.The Patriots hired Easterby in 2013 to help the team cope with the murder charges against tight end Aaron Hernandez. Easterby's contract expired this winter, and he decided to pursue other interests.He left the Patriots in February. After his departure, the Boston Globe reported Easterby thought his job "had run its course," but he also wasn't comfortable with the solicitation charges against team owner Robert Kraft.--The Dallas Cowboys extended defensive end Randy Gregory's contract for one year and $735,000, NFL Network reported.Gregory was set to enter the final year of his contract, but it's unclear if he will be eligible to play in 2019 after being suspended indefinitely in February, his fourth suspension under the league's substance abuse agreement.--The Jacksonville Jaguars signed running back Benny Cunningham, one day after reaching an agreement with running back Alfred Blue.Both visited the team on Monday, and now both will back up Leonard Fournette on the depth chart. No terms were disclosed.--The Indianapolis Colts claimed safety Derrick Kindred off waivers from the Cleveland Browns.Kindred, 25, was cut by Cleveland on Monday. A fourth-round pick in 2016, he has two interceptions and 12 passes defensed in 42 career games (17 starts).--The Kansas City Chiefs signed free agent tight end Blake Bell, multiple outlets reported.AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensA Texas city ordered residents to take shelter indoors for several hours on Thursday morning for what was the second time in a week as the air quality there worsened after a fire at a petrochemical storage facility.Officials in the city, Deer Park, which is about 20 miles east of Houston, lifted the latest shelter-in-place order at 11:40 a.m., about seven hours after putting it in place. The order had been prompted by the levels of benzene in the air.In a statement, emergency services and public health officials said that air quality readings in the area had improved for a sustained period of time, allowing the city to lift the order.“Air quality readings are improving, and over the last few hours, they have been significantly reduced,” said Robert Hemminger, the city’s emergency services director. “This information, combined with the assurance of Harris County Public Health, allows us to meet our internal criteria necessary to lift our shelter-in-place.”Officials said they would continue to monitor the air quality even after the shelter order was lifted. And on Thursday afternoon, the United States Chemical Safety Board said in a statement that it would begin an investigation into the blaze next week.The blaze in Deer Park began on Sunday morning when a storage tank caught fire at the Intercontinental Terminals Company’s facility there, the city said. The city issued the first of two shelter-in-place orders that afternoon, but lifted the order by the next morning after officials received word that air quality readings had not “exceeded action levels.”Several fire departments fought the blaze throughout the week to prevent it from spreading and extinguished it by early Wednesday morning, officials said. Throughout Wednesday, local and federal officials had assured the public that air-quality readings were “well below hazardous levels” and that there “was no potential threat” posed by elevated levels of benzene in the air.Benzene, which is a natural part of crude oil and gasoline, is a colorless, flammable liquid with a sweet odor that is known to cause cancer, according to the American Cancer Society.Early Thursday, officials issued the second shelter-in-place order around 5 a.m. after what they said was a benzene leak at the storage facility where the fire occurred. The Deer Park Fire Department posted a statement from Judge Lina Hidalgo of Harris County, who said that air quality readings in the area had crossed “our very conservative” standards and that officials were again telling residents to take shelter “out of an abundance of caution.”“We know this is concerning, especially to residents in the area of the shelter in place,” the judge’s statement said. “We are continuing to monitor to verify if this is a short-term, onetime exposure or a longer exposure.”At a news conference later Thursday, Judge Hidalgo said that benzene vapor had been discovered early Thursday but that only the area around the storage facility seemed to show elevated levels of it. Low winds had kept the vapor mostly in that area, she said, adding that a “downward trend” seemed to be taking hold. Officials lifted the shelter-in-place order a few hours later.Still, some residents have expressed skepticism about officials’ assessments after having been told for days that the air was safe to breathe only to then be told Thursday that they had to stay indoors.“Everything has been wrapped up in this nice perfect bow in saying that there were no problems,” Terri Garcia, a longtime Deer Park resident, told The Associated Press. “Every air quality was perfect. Every wind was perfect blowing it away. And if everything was so perfect, why did it happen?”Teams of hazardous material and chemical experts and the Texas National Guard were deployed to the area, Judge Hidalgo said. Various streets and highways were temporarily closed because of the shelter-in-place order, and the local school district canceled classes.Liam Stack contributed reporting.AdvertisementSupported byTranslating the latest success against the AIDS virus into a practical treatment will take years — if it happens at all. Here are answers to some of the most pressing questions raised by the news.By Apoorva MandavilliAt a scientific conference in Seattle on Tuesday, researchers reckoned with a day that many thought might never arrive. A patient appears to have been cured of H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, for only the second time since the epidemic began.A sort of electric hope hangs in the air, said Dr. Steve Deeks, an AIDS specialist at the University of California, San Francisco, who is attending the gathering: “The whole approach to a cure is shifting more from aspiration to something that people are realizing could be feasible.” It is a hope that must be tempered with realism: H.I.V. is a wily adversary, and scientists and patients living with the virus are all too well acquainted with past failures in the fight against the epidemic.Here’s what the news means right now. Not yet. The second case does provide “proof of concept,” shining a light on a potential path to an H.I.V. cure. Scientists intend to pursue it with vigor. But this apparent success does not mean that an easy cure is around the corner, and certainly not that infected patients should stop taking their pills. “Sometimes the amount of desperation for a cure is driven by the stigma that’s still out there,” said Richard Jefferys, a director at Treatment Action Group, an advocacy organization. “But while two or three people is a drop in the ocean compared to the 35 million H.I.V.-positive people in the world, it’s a whole lot better than zero.”Both men believed to have been cured so far had H.I.V. and cancer. Both received bone-marrow transplants to treat the cancer, not the H.I.V. In each case, the bone-marrow donors carried a key genetic mutation, called delta 32, that hampers H.I.V.’s entry into certain blood cells. Bone-marrow transplants are risky procedures, so this is not likely to be a treatment option for the majority of people with H.I.V. And it is worth noting that until now, most other attempts to repeat the first cure had also failed.Whatever the path to a cure turns out to be, it will not be simple. Cure means the virus seems to be gone forever. Remission is a more conservative term: The virus is under control in the body, but maybe not forever. Before scientists described the case Monday, there had been only one widely accepted example of a cure: Timothy Ray Brown, 52, who has remained free of H.I.V. for 12 years after two bone-marrow transplants. After his case, there were many failed attempts to duplicate this success. Each time, the virus came back after the patient stopped taking anti-H.I.V. drugs.The newly reported case, in a man described only as the “London patient,” has been H.I.V.-free for 18 months since stopping the drugs. Extraordinarily sensitive tests cannot find the virus in his body. To some scientists, that’s a cure. Others are more skeptical. “We don’t have any international agreement on what time without viral rebound is necessary to speak about cure,” said Dr. Annemarie Wensing, a virologist at the University Medical Center Utrecht in the Netherlands.It is worth noting that there have been patients who went into remission without a bone-marrow transplant. In these cases, the immune system seems able to maintain tight control over the virus, even without drugs. For years, researchers have been trying to figure out how it happens.A transplant from a delta 32 donor essentially wipes out the immune cells that are vulnerable to H.I.V., replacing them with cells that are resistant to the virus. Already many groups of scientists are trying to mimic the benefits of a bone-marrow transplant without the risks of the actual procedure.The delta 32 mutation occurs in a gene that directs production of a protein called CCR5, which sits on the surface of certain immune cells. A common type of H.I.V. needs this protein, among others, to enter cells in order to reproduce. The gene that directs production of CCR5 may be modified with newer gene therapy techniques, similar to treatments developed for hemophilia and sickle-cell disease. And scientists have tried to edit CCR5 from a person’s immune cells in the lab and to infuse the modified cells back into the body. But so far the numbers of cells derived with this method do not seem to be enough to make anyone resistant to H.I.V.In one trial funded by Sangamo Therapeutics, however, researchers reported a curious finding: Although the infusion did not cure H.I.V. infection, the amount of virus in the body seemed to decline by a thousandfold. The company is planning a follow-up study to explore this further.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Another approach would be to deliver enzymes that edit the genes directly into the body. The real challenge is in targeting the enzymes: Many teams are looking into delivery via nanoparticles, for example, but this strategy is years from success, Dr. Deeks said.An even more intriguing option is to design a predecessor stem cell that would produce a steady stream of H.I.V.-resistant immune cells in the body. At least one group in China is trying to edit CCR5 from stem cells that can be infused into patients with both cancer and H.I.V. Early studies at the University of Pennsylvania suggest that something like this might work, noted Dr. Mike McCune, a global health adviser to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.In addition, some scientists are trying to force the virus into remission with broadly neutralizing antibodies, immune molecules that can disable various types of H.I.V.Five to 10 years at the earliest. And that covers only types of H.I.V. that rely on CCR5 to infect cells. Another form of H.I.V., called X4, relies on a different protein to enter cells; none of these theoretical treatments would guard against infection with that form of the virus.“Nobody should really be anticipating a cure or a remission is around the corner,” Dr. McCune said.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKARLSRUHE, Germany — Pro-euthanasia doctors and patients petitioned Germany's Constitutional Court on Tuesday to overturn 2015 legislation that outlaws commercial assisted suicide. Like several other European nations, Germany does allow assisted dying - but not when money is involved.Six complainants, including medics, suicide assistance organizations and terminally ill people, brought the case against the law that stipulates fines and up to three years' prison for commercial help for people to die.Hans-Juergen Brennecke, suffering from a rare and aggressive form of cancer, said he was fighting both for himself and others with similar conditions. "Everyone should take the final steps in their lives in the way they want," he told Reuters.The issue is particularly sensitive in Germany due to the legacy of the Holocaust when Nazis killed and carried out inhumane experiments on Jews.Given the existing law, some people seek euthanasia via family members with no commercial aspect, or go abroad. The Karlsruhe-based tribunal is expected to rule on the case in the next few months. "We hope that with a decision from the Constitutional Court, we will return to (a situation where) we can help members in the way they want," plaintiff Roger Kusch, of lobby group Assisted Dying Germany, told Reuters.Arguing against a repeal of the law are palliative medics, who fear a change would risk premature action in cases not properly based on a wish to die.Only a few countries in the world have legalized euthanasia whereby a doctor administers lethal doses of drugs to patients willing to die, or people take the final action themselves.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard GoldsteinGene Littler, a quietly outstanding golfer who was known as Gene the Machine for an uncommonly smooth and consistent swing that propelled him to the 1961 United States Open championship, died on Friday in San Diego. He was 88.His death was announced by the PGA Tour. His son, Curt, told The San Diego Union-Tribune that he had neuropathy in his legs and had had several falls. In 1972, Littler had surgery for lymph cancer that had seemingly ended his career.In his prime, though self-taught, he had “a perfect swing,” said Gene Sarazen, a winner of seven major championships. “Like Sam Snead’s, only better.”Littler was typically self-effacing in assessing his form. “I just put the ball down and hit,” he once said.Unassuming and devoid of glamour in an era dominated by Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player, and relatively unimposing at 5 foot 9 and 160 pounds or so, Littler simply went about winning tournaments: 29 on the PGA Tour and another eight on what was then the Senior PGA Tour.Littler, who lost two other majors in playoffs and another by one stroke, was a seven-time Ryder Cup player and was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 1990.Littler was virtually ignored by the galleries in the early stages of the 1961 United State Open’s final round at Oakland Hills in Michigan. He was among a pack chasing Doug Sanders, who was three shots ahead after the third round, and he had injured a rib earlier in the year, sidelining him for two months. He had won a total of $116 in his first five tournaments of 1961. Not only that, but Littler needed to adjust his widely envied swing a few days before the tournament.As Littler later told it, Ted Kroll, a fellow professional, “told me to hit the ball more directly, or more upright.”Littler added, “I had a tendency to swing flat.”It was Littler’s brilliant putting that carried him to victory at Oakland Hills, whose undulating greens frustrated many of the other contenders. He one-putted on six holes of the final round and needed only the customary two putts at the others, and he sank 15-foot putts at Nos. 7 and 13. After hitting into a bunker guarding the green on the 18th hole, he two-putted for a bogey 5 and a two-under-par 68 that bested Sanders and Bob Goalby by a shot.Gene Alec Littler was born on July 21, 1930, in San Diego and grew to love golf while playing on area courses. He graduated from San Diego State University and then entered the Navy. He won the United States Amateur and played in the Walker Cup amateur competition between the United States and a British-Irish team in 1953.The prominent golf writer Herbert Warren Wind was impressed by the fluidity of such a young player’s swing.“Gene took the club back with a very, very slow, easy, relaxed rhythm, then paused a lazy second at the top before droning slowly down into the ball, delaying his accelerated hitting action until the very last moment when the club head was only two feet or so from the ball,” Wind wrote in 1955 in Sports Illustrated.While still an amateur, Littler won the San Diego Open in January 1954, and he turned pro soon afterward. He almost won the United States Open in June 1954, losing to Ed Furgol by one stroke, and then won four tournaments in 1955. He captured the Tournament of Champions in Las Vegas three consecutive times, from 1955 to 1957. Littler lost to Billy Casper, a friend since their boyhood in San Diego, in an 18-hole playoff at the 1970 Masters.Two years later, Littler was found to have lymph cancer, requiring surgery. Much of the muscular structure on his left side was removed. But through arduous rehabilitation, he was able to regain the use of his left arm and rejoin the tour. He won the St. Louis Children’s Hospital Classic in July 1973 and received the Ben Hogan Award as comeback player of the year and the Bob Jones Award for distinguished sportsmanship in golf.Littler went to a playoff at the 1977 P.G.A. Championship at Pebble Beach, losing to Lanny Wadkins on the third hole of sudden death after leading by five strokes with nine holes to play.He retired from the PGA Tour after that season and joined the fledgling Senior PGA Tour in 1981. Three years later he fell from a ladder while working on one of his antique cars and fractured his left arm, which was already weakened from cancer surgery. But he won six times on the Senior Tour after that.In addition to his son, survivors include his wife, Shirley, and a daughter, Suzanne.For all his achievements, and all the admiration for his swing, Littler struggled with self-doubt.AdvertisementSupported byThe CheckupNew guidelines call for speaking openly with children when they or their parents face life-threatening diseases.By Perri Klass, M.D.“One of the most difficult things we ever have to do is to tell a child he or she has a very serious condition and may not survive it, or that a parent has a condition they may not survive,” said Dr. Alan Stein, a professor of child and adolescent psychiatry at the University of Oxford.Dr. Stein is the senior author on two articles published last week in the British medical journal The Lancet, which suggested guidelines for talking to children about life-threatening illness, one on when the illness is the child’s own and the other on when a parent is ill.The doctors and other health care providers who are treating a parent with a serious illness often don’t see this as their job, Dr. Stein said, but it can make a tremendous difference. Children are sensitive to changes in their parents’ behavior, he said, and profoundly aware of parental mood and family atmosphere. “If we don’t tell them, they have to cope with their anxieties by themselves,” he said. “If it can be shared, they can get the kind of support they need, and the evidence is, this in many cases has benefits for the family system and the individual child.”The guidelines call on the health care providers taking care of the child — or the parent — with the serious illness to help with this conversation, speaking directly with the child, when the child is sick, but also working with and supporting the parent, and offering specific age-appropriate advice. The articles discuss working with families in low- and middle-income countries, including in parts of Africa where the H.I.V. prevalence is high and affects both children and parents. There, part of the issue is the stigma of the disease. But even without that, talking about serious illness can be overwhelming.Dr. Brenda Kelly, a fetal medicine specialist at Oxford who is a co-author on the new articles, said she has 10 years’ experience in delivering bad news to women who were carrying pregnancies that would not make it, or would result in babies who would not live.“None of that prepared me for being the recipient of my own bad news,” she said. In May 2018, she was given a diagnosis of Stage 3 breast cancer, and she had to decide how and what to tell her own children, who were 9 and 6 at the time. “However articulate I am in my professional life, when it came to this, I was at a complete loss for words,” Dr. Kelly said.She delayed telling her children only for a day, because of a special occasion. “It was my son’s birthday the day after my diagnosis, and my husband and I spent time in the bathroom, just crying, this is the last day of normality,” she said. Still, she said, having that incredibly difficult conversation “set us up for the treatment journey.”Her 9-year-old daughter told her, “Mom, you have to trust me with the information.” Her daughter also asked her not to hide things, for example by running into another room to take a call from the hospital. She told them, she said, that after her chemotherapy and radiation, there might be times she looked bad, but it wouldn’t be the cancer getting worse, it would be the therapy. Still, her son went through a period of night terrors, convinced that the doctors had made a mistake, and she really was sicker.“The question they ask is, are you going to die?” she said. “You yourself don’t know the answer.” With the new papers, she said, comes a charge to doctors and other health care professionals to help parents frame the answer to that difficult question, and not to delegate it to others. “There’s no easy way but I think it’s really important we do it and important that professionals navigate those really difficult waters, and hold our hand through the journey.”The guidelines take into account the ways that children’s understanding of death and dying changes as they grow, and give advice for how to shape these conversations. With very young children, Dr. Stein said, discussion early on might emphasize the seriousness of the condition and the importance of treatment, but not necessarily the issue of death, unless they ask.Children around 5 to 7 often feel very responsible when bad things happen, Dr. Stein said. One 7-year-old boy whose mother died became convinced that it was his fault because she had missed a clinic visit one day when he had a bad tantrum. “He felt he had caused his mother’s death, because she hadn’t gone to the clinic and gotten the information she needed,” Dr. Stein said.When the children are the patients, they also worry that these conversations will be too painful for their parents, said Dr. Emily Harrop, a consultant in pediatric palliative care at Oxford who is a co-author on the articles. “I have seen in practice children becoming quite anxious and distressed, feeling a protectiveness of their parents, not wanting to open the conversation, perhaps not even feeling they have permission to die.”She recalled caring for a 4-year-old girl with a brain tumor whose mother believed that her daughter did not know she was going to die. When the mother was out of the room, the child asked the doctor, “How will I get through the ceiling when I go up to heaven?”In her experience, Dr. Harrop said, “Children who’ve had good information sharing are much calmer, less anxious.” That requires having the conversations well and carefully, and keeping them free of jargon. “I would always start the conversation by having the child say to me what they understand, so I understand how they have received information,” she said.Dr. Kelly described her own medical team as “exemplary” in how they broke the news to her, but at the moment of diagnosis their focus was entirely on her, while she was more anguished about her children. “It would help tremendously if these conversations start with health care providers,” she said.The new guidelines are meant to encourage exactly that. Dr. Stein said that because these conversations are so difficult, doctors worry that they will get it wrong and somehow do harm. “Do it carefully and sensitively and support the family and you’re usually fine,” he said.AdvertisementOn this week’s Modern Love podcast, the actress Debra Winger reprises her reading of “You May Want to Marry My Husband,” a moving essay written by Amy Krouse Rosenthal as she was dying from ovarian cancer.Ms. Rosenthal passed away 10 days after her essay was published. She was a memoirist, children’s book author and public speaker.Ms. Winger is currently working on an untitled movie directed by Miranda July. She is best known for her roles in the films “Urban Cowboy” and “Terms of Endearment.”AdvertisementSupported byletterThe genetic testing company rebuts an editorial’s criticisms of its health test. To the Editor:Re “Why You Should Be Careful About 23andMe’s Health Test” (editorial, nytimes.com, Feb. 1):We were surprised to read your editorial criticizing the 23andMe direct-to-consumer genetic test and warning customers to be wary. For 13 years, 23andMe has been paving a way forward for customers to get affordable access to potentially lifesaving genetic information, without the barrier of having to go through a medical professional. Our reports covering risks for hereditary breast cancer, Parkinson’s disease, harmful blood clots, and inherited lung and liver disease are just a few that have significantly affected lives. While 23andMe is not a diagnostic test for individuals with a strong family history of disease, it is a powerful and accurate screening tool that allows people to learn about themselves and some of the most common clinically useful genetic conditions.The Food and Drug Administration sets a high bar for accuracy and user comprehension. The reports authorized by the F.D.A. have gone through a rigorous process that has shown they are both clinically and analytically valid, far different than the “parlor trick” test the editorial refers to. We spent years proving to the F.D.A., through detailed analytical testing, that our Genetic Health Risk reports meet accuracy thresholds of 99 percent or higher. More equitable health care will come only if we can provide direct access — access without a medical professional barrier — in affordable ways. We believe that consumers can learn about genetic information without the help of a medical professional, and we have the data to support that claim — specifically, user comprehension studies showing greater than 90 percent understanding of the concepts in our reports, including that a 0 variant or “negative” result does not mean forgoing other recommended screenings.Many people do not meet the criteria for diagnostic testing through their medical professional, thus inhibiting access. Insurance companies have well-defined, restrictive criteria around who can qualify for tests like BRCA such as a family history of disease and/or specific ancestral origins. We have seen over the last decade that many customers do not in fact know their family history or ancestral origins and thus would never qualify.Several studies show that as many as 50 percent of people with one of the three well-established BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene variants that 23andMe tests for would not qualify for traditional screening under current guidelines. Women who carry one of the variants we test for have a 45 to 85 percent risk of developing breast cancer versus 12.4 percent in the general population. For those who carry one of these variants — and we have thousands of customers who do — knowing that information is medically important.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCOPENHAGEN — Novozymes has signed up two new partners for its biological agriculture business (BioAg), adding to its previously exclusive partnership with German chemicals giant Bayer in a drive to boost growth. The Danish company is the world's largest maker of industrial enzymes and with BioAg produces microbes such as bacteria and fungi to protect plants from pests and help them to grow faster.It will continue a close innovation and commercial partnership with Bayer within corn and soy, Novozymes said late on Thursday, as it presented two new partners - Univar Solutions and UPL.The Danish firm's shares were up 2.7 percent at 0910 GMT.Novozymes said it had been happy with its collaboration since 2014 with Monsanto and then Bayer, which bought Monsanto last year for $63 billion (£48.2 billion)."But there are of course things they don't have focus on, for example peanuts. That's one area we can now send to a place where it will get the needed attention," head of Novozymes' Agriculture & Bioenergy business Tina Sejersgaard Fano said.She said the decision was not linked to last week's ruling from a U.S. jury to award $80 million to a man who claimed use of Bayer's weed killer Roundup caused his cancer, or the thousands of potential similar looming lawsuits."Of course we follow the court case, but is has nothing to do with our decision. We're working with Bayer on making agriculture more sustainable by making solutions that gives a better yield with fewer chemicals," Fano said.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MARCH 22, 2019

This joint typically feels the force of five to eight times your body weight with each step, making it the most stressed joint in the body:KneeHipAnkleBig toe jointConsuming sugary drinks was tied to an increased risk of:Death from cardiovascular diseaseDying from cancerPremature death from any causeAll of the aboveLifting weights has many benefits for older people, including motivating them to continue exercising, a new study found. About what percentage of older Americans routinely lift weights?8 percent17 percent28 percent42 percentSome patients cannot tolerate statin drugs because of muscle aches. The cholesterol-lowering medications also raise the risk of this problem in about 9 percent of patients:Skin rashesStrokeDiabetesHeart attacksThis ultrasound, of a pregnancy in Colombia, shows an extraordinarily rare finding:SeptupletsIdentical tripletsSemi-idential twins, one male, one femaleA twin fetus growing within a fetusIn Takotsubo syndrome, the heart begins to resemble a narrow-necked Japanese octopus trap called a takotsubo, usually as a result of severe stress. Takatsubo syndrome is also commonly referred to as:Heart failureAnginaA-fibBroken-heart syndromeThe Food and Drug Administration approved the first drug specifically targeted to treat this pregnancy complication, which affects up to one in seven new mothers: Morning sicknessPostpartum depressionAdvertisementSupported byTrust the pork producers; fear the wind turbines.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistThere’s a lot we don’t know about the legacy Donald Trump will leave behind. And it is, of course, hugely important what happens in the 2020 election. But one thing seems sure: Even if he’s a one-term president, Trump will have caused, directly or indirectly, the premature deaths of a large number of Americans.Some of those deaths will come at the hands of right-wing, white nationalist extremists, who are a rapidly growing threat, partly because they feel empowered by a president who calls them “very fine people.”Some will come from failures of governance, like the inadequate response to Hurricane Maria, which surely contributed to the high death toll in Puerto Rico. (Reminder: Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens.)Some will come from the administration’s continuing efforts to sabotage Obamacare, which have failed to kill health reform but have stalled the decline in the number of uninsured, meaning that many people still aren’t getting the health care they need. Of course, if Trump gets his way and eliminates Obamacare altogether, things on this front will get much, much worse.But the biggest death toll is likely to come from Trump’s agenda of deregulation — or maybe we should call it “deregulation,” because his administration is curiously selective about which industries it wants to leave alone.Consider two recent events that help capture the deadly strangeness of what’s going on.One is the administration’s plan for hog plants to take over much of the federal responsibility for food safety inspections. And why not? It’s not as if we’ve seen safety problems arise from self-regulation in, say, the aircraft industry, have we? Or as if we ever experience major outbreaks of food-borne illness? Or as if there was a reason the U.S. government stepped in to regulate meatpacking in the first place?Now, you could see the Trump administration’s willingness to trust the meat industry to keep our meat safe as part of an overall attack on government regulation, a willingness to trust profit-making businesses to do the right thing and let the market rule. And there’s something to that, but it’s not the whole story, as illustrated by another event: Trump’s declaration the other day that wind turbines cause cancer.Now, you could put this down to personal derangement: Trump has had an irrational hatred for wind power ever since he failed to prevent construction of a wind farm near his Scottish golf course. And Trump seems deranged and irrational on so many issues that one more bizarre claim hardly seems to matter.But there’s more to this than just another Trumpism. After all, we normally think of Republicans in general, and Trump in particular, as people who minimize or deny the “negative externalities” imposed by some business activities — the uncompensated costs they impose on other people or businesses.For example, the Trump administration wants to roll back rules that limit emissions of mercury from power plants. And in pursuit of that goal, it wants to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency from taking account of many of the benefits from reduced mercury emissions, such as an associated reduction in nitrogen oxide.But when it comes to renewable energy, Trump and company are suddenly very worried about supposed negative side effects, which generally exist only in their imagination. Last year the administration floated a proposal that would have forced the operators of electricity grids to subsidize coal and nuclear energy. The supposed rationale was that new sources were threatening to destabilize those grids — but the grid operators themselves denied that this was the case.So it’s deregulation for some, but dire warnings about imaginary threats for others. What’s going on?Part of the answer is, follow the money. Political contributions from the meat-processing industry overwhelmingly favor Republicans. Coal mining supports the G.O.P. almost exclusively. Alternative energy, on the other hand, generally favors Democrats.There are probably other things, too. If you’re a party that wishes we could go back to the 1950s (but without the 91 percent top tax rate), you’re going to have a hard time accepting the reality that hippie-dippy, unmanly things like wind and solar power are becoming ever more cost-competitive.Whatever the drivers of Trump policy, the fact, as I said, is that it will kill people. Wind turbines don’t cause cancer, but coal-burning power plants do — along with many other ailments. The Trump administration’s own estimates indicate that its relaxation of coal pollution rules will kill more than 1,000 Americans every year. If the administration gets to implement its full agenda — not just deregulation of many industries, but discrimination against industries it doesn’t like, such as renewable energy — the toll will be much higher.So if you eat meat — or, for that matter, drink water or breathe air — there’s a real sense in which Donald Trump is trying to kill you. And even if he’s turned out of office next year, for many Americans it will be too late.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Eileen SullivanWASHINGTON — President Trump said on Tuesday that he was “never a fan” of the late Senator John McCain, “and I never will be.”The president’s blunt remarks came in response to a reporter’s question about his recent attacks on the Republican war hero who represented Arizona, and who died last year of brain cancer.On Tuesday, the focus of Mr. Trump’s ire was Mr. McCain’s historic vote on health care in 2017, when he went against his own party and opposed a Republican measure to repeal the Affordable Care Act.“He campaigned on repealing and replacing Obamacare for years, and then he got to a vote and he said thumbs down,” Mr. Trump said on Tuesday after taking reporters’ questions alongside the president of Brazil, who was at the White House for an official visit. “Our country would have saved a trillion dollars and we would have had great health care.”Over the weekend, however, Mr. Trump’s attacks on Mr. McCain largely focused on the Russia investigation. Mr. Trump derided Mr. McCain, the Republican nominee for president in 2008, for sharing with the F.B.I. a copy of a salacious and uncorroborated dossier on the Trump campaign’s dealings with Russia, though Mr. Trump falsely claimed Mr. McCain had shared it with the agency before the election. Mr. Trump also falsely said Mr. McCain was last in his class at the Naval Academy. In fact, Mr. McCain was fifth from the bottom and often mocked himself for it.AdvertisementSupported byTiesAfter cancer surgery I was fiercely determined to survive. That meant reconnecting to my essential self and shedding my ex-husband’s name.By Pari BerkI had a chunk of myself removed last month.“Think of it as a marble in your sheet cake,” the oncologist said.That marble was a tumor in my liver, a serious situation, but at least I was a candidate for surgery. Recovering in Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City, having just been filleted, solar plexus to navel, I exhaled into the plastic spirometer that measured my airflow. It felt like a miniature version of that strong man carnival game in which you pound a mallet to try to ring a bell. Meanwhile, there was the quotidian task of managing my children’s calendars from my iPhone while texts, emails and Facebook messages flooded in, well-wishers checking up on how I was recovering.When I messaged my ex-husband to ask if he could take our daughter to a birthday party, his reply popped back and there it was: his name, which is my name, too. Just as in elementary school choir: John Jacob Jingleheimer Schmidt. Except our name was Chang.I thought about the liver surgery team fellow who did a double take in the pre-op room. He was looking for Pari Chang. He looked at the sign on the door that said “Chang” and looked at me, the non-Asian patient, and began walking away. “Hold up,” I’d called out. “You have the right room! My ex-husband is Chinese.”“I was wondering,” he confessed, laughing. In a paper gown, with no makeup or jewelry and wearing my glasses (no contact lenses for patients headed to the O.R.), my last name felt like an accessory.Post surgery, exchanging texts with my ex over kid-logistics, I considered the decision I had made 17 years earlier to take his Chinese surname. At the time, this traditional, wifely move felt radical to me because it signaled that I was part of a mixed-race couple. Back then, at 27, I was experiencing some self-consciousness about my own origins. My father was a successful small business owner — a meatpacker — and though my parents were street smart and financially secure, to me, their know-it-all, bookish daughter, they seemed unrefined. I was eager to marry into my husband’s clan, a family of scientists and calligraphers, of professors and gourmet cooks. “Chang,” symbolized the reinvention of myself from Jersey Girl to pan-cultural sophisticate.A line from the Lorrie Moore novel “A Gate at the Stairs” resonated for me: “I’d always been opposed to a woman taking her husband’s name, but when I changed mine, I suddenly knew the relief in such an act.”Through the divorce, I held on to my married name like a tether to the family I’d made. Chang was on my driver’s license, my passport, and my children’s birth certificates. You come to own your name just as you own your own body. It is the skin of you, your packaging, your label and your presentation. I was channeling Erica Jong, another Jewish writer who’d divorced a Chinese man and kept his surname. Plus, it felt right to have the same last name as my kids.“No one believes you’re my mom,” my almond-eyed son said once at camp pickup, wounded confusion in his voice. But the name was the proof.Yet, recovering in the hospital, battling the Big C — and preposterously negotiating the chaperoning of a roller-skating party — I was fiercely determined to survive, which took reconnecting to my essential self. Frankly, the whole fact of this cancer, a malignancy in my colon that later metastasized to my liver, felt inconceivable. I was young and fit, only in my 40s, but apparently part of the medical conundrum du jour, the sharp uptick of colorectal cancer diagnoses in Americans under 50.My Grandma Sooky would have had a psychological explanation for the target organ of my illness. “You’re eating your kishkes out over this divorce,” she’d have said, kishkes being Yiddish for intestines, or guts. Perhaps that old-world thinking contained a kernel of wisdom.Jack, my partner of six and a half years, had long observed that I hadn’t wholly let go of my ex. He was right, evidenced by the fact that I had kept his name. In the midst of my cancer recurrence, Jack and I married. We felt an urgency to make our love official. As a bonus, he had excellent health insurance. On our wedding day we sandwiched our visit to City Hall between a PET scan and a consult with a liver surgeon. I was literally radioactive when we said our “I do’s,” but I would have been glowing anyway.The irony is, I never once considered taking Jack’s last name. I don’t think it crossed his mind, either. The young woman I once was, seeking otherness and urbanity, a striver with class insecurities, had evolved into a stalwart mother in New Jersey, raising her kids in her hometown with their grandma. The mettle it took for my parents to muscle into the middle class turned out to be my lucky inheritance. The woman Jack married is her parents’ daughter, Pari Berk.Home from the hospital, I made the name change Facebook-official and the likes poured in. Yet, when I broke the news to my 9-year-old daughter, she cried, and my 12-year-old son, in typical preteen fashion, sulked and gave me the silent treatment. No doubt news of yet another change was disconcerting to them during a month of uncertainty. I circled back to the kids separately a few hours later, though, and they seemed to soften, both uttering some version of, “It’s up to you, Mom.”Lately, my son has been especially snuggly. My little girl has taken to leaving me inspirational messages on her chalkboard. “You’ll be OK,” my favorite one begins. “You will fight through this with all you can and with hope and determability, you can do … ANYTHING.”AdvertisementSupported byPeople exposed to secondhand smoke even a few days a week had more than 50 percent increased risk of developing kidney disease.By Nicholas BakalarExposure to secondhand smoke increases the risk for chronic kidney disease, a new study has found.Korean researchers studied 131,196 nonsmokers, dividing them into three groups: those who had more than three days a week of exposure to secondhand smoke; those who had less than three days a week; and those with no exposure at all. Their average age was 53, and 75 percent were women. The study is in the Clinical Journal of the American Society of Nephrology.After controlling for age, sex, body mass index, hypertension, diabetes, alcohol consumption and other health and behavioral characteristics, they found that people who had already been exposed to secondhand smoke at the start of the study had a 44 percent higher incidence of kidney disease.AdvertisementSupported byThe Neediest Cases FundBy John OtisZaps of pain, like tiny shocks, bombarded her head. Susann Davis assumed it was a migraine, a seemingly minor annoyance when stacked against the crises she already faced.In 2016, Ms. Davis lost her job in the hospitality industry. Soon after, she was diagnosed with stomach cancer. Then she learned she was being evicted from her apartment.Luckily, Ms. Davis said in a recent interview, while early into unemployment she had consulted a friend, Katherine Earle, a Community Health Advocates counselor. Ms. Earle had helped her sign up for Medicaid.“It was sort of like the universe intercepting,” said Ms. Davis, 46.Community Health Advocates is operated by Community Service Society, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. It helps clients traverse the complicated health care system, helping them access low-cost or free care, resolve medical billing issues and understand their health care rights.[Read: In retirement, they find rewards in volunteering.]Medicaid covered all of Ms. Davis’s cancer treatments at Mount Sinai St. Luke’s Hospital from May to December 2016. She was also able to extend her time in her apartment.During that time, Ms. Davis learned that the lightning sensations in her head were a result of damaged nerves from a botched root canal years earlier. To fix the damaged tooth, she required a dental implant, which cost $1,718.63. Because it was considered a cosmetic procedure, it was not covered by her dental plan.“Any sort of cosmetic when it comes to dental work should be included in your insurance,” Ms. Davis said. “It should be considered vital.”Once more, Ms. Earle was able to help her friend, securing a grant from the Neediest Cases Fund so Ms. Davis could afford the dental procedure.“I don’t think I could have done it on my own,” she said. “At my lowest period, they were there to help me.”Of the money raised in the previous Neediest Cases Fund campaign, $50,000 went to the Community Health Advocates program and helped people like Ms. Davis with health concerns.“Access to dental service is our top need, the No. 1 service people call us for,” said Diane Spicer, supervising attorney of the Community Health Advocates program.Many health insurance policies in New York State do not cover a wide array of dental services, or they will cover services only if a patient is in extreme need. Benefits are often capped at $1,000 or $2,000 each year, but fairly common procedures, such as root canals, crowns and dental implants, cost upward of $5,000. So many people who cannot afford these costs neglect problems with their teeth, only to wind up in terrible pain or with missing teeth, leading to shame and stigma.“If you’re missing a tooth, it doesn’t even matter if your job is in the hospitality service industry,” Ms. Davis said. “If you’re working where you have to meet people or anything that has to do with presentation, you still have to have teeth.”Ms. Davis’s cancer has been in remission since 2016, and she has a new job in Atlanta.For Robert Walker, a retired truck driver in the Bronx, an urbane appearance was less important than pain relief once he began having an issue with his teeth. Mr. Walker, 73, has diabetes, asthma and a heart condition, and he is on Medicaid.In 2017, he required new dentures, specifically a bottom partial plate. The teeth underneath it had grown loose.“Every time I’d bite down on my food, it would hurt my gums,” he said. “I had to eat nothing but soft foods, soups and stuff like that, mashed potatoes.”Mr. Walker would need to have his teeth extracted and a full bottom plate put in to relieve the pain. His medical coverage would not cover the expenses. The cost of the dentures was more than $2,000. Mr. Walker receives $1,010 in Social Security Insurance each month.“If it wasn’t for food stamps, I’d really be up a creek,” he said.A dental clinic discount was given to him, but Mr. Walker was still $500 short. In late 2017, Community Health Advocates intervened with money from a Neediest grant to pay for the dentures.“I’m eating peanuts now,” Mr. Walker said, adding, “I call myself blessed because there are a lot of seniors in worse shape than what I’m in.”Those people, and countless others, are exactly why Community Health Advocates exists, Ms. Spicer said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Neil GenzlingerPeter D. Meldrum, who led the biotech company Myriad Genetics for 23 years, when it was at the heart of a landmark court battle involving whether two genes associated with breast cancer could be patented, died on Dec. 20 in Salt Lake City. He was 71.A spokesman for the company said the cause was a head injury sustained when he fell while playing touch football with his grandchildren.Mr. Meldrum and Mark Skolnick founded Myriad Genetics in 1991, and Mr. Meldrum became its chief executive the next year, taking it from a small start-up to a publicly traded company that by the time he retired in 2015 had annual revenues of more than $700 million. Its most visible product during that time was a test for mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes that could indicate a heightened risk of breast and ovarian cancer.The company had been granted patents on those genes, which, working with several partners, it had isolated after Mary-Claire King, then at the University of California, Berkeley, had traced it to a particular chromosome in 1990.Those patents, which the company vigorously defended during Mr. Meldrum’s tenure, enabled Myriad to monopolize the testing for mutations in the genes. A coalition of groups, including the Association for Molecular Pathology and the American Civil Liberties Union, challenged the patents in court, arguing that a part of the human body could not be patented and that Myriad’s monopoly was stifling research, inflating the cost of the test and preventing many women from getting tested.In June 2013, after years of back-and-forth rulings in lower courts, the Supreme Court invalidated the patents, ruling 9-0 that human genes, as opposed to those created synthetically, could not be patented.“A naturally occurring DNA segment is a product of nature and not patent eligible merely because it has been isolated,” Justice Clarence Thomas wrote for the court. “It is undisputed that Myriad did not create or alter any of the genetic information encoded in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes.”By that time, though, the company was moving toward a more comprehensive genetic test and had developed tests in other areas, like colon cancer and rheumatoid arthritis.Peter Durkee Meldrum was born on June 26, 1947, in Salt Lake City to Benjamin and Grace Durkee Meldrum. He received a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering in 1970 from the University of Utah, where he was on the cross-country team. After two years in the Army as a radiological officer, he returned to the university for graduate school, receiving a master’s degree in business administration in 1974.Mr. Meldrum married Catherine Marie Roper in 1970. She survives him, as do a son, Christopher; a brother, Daniel; and three grandsons.He started a venture capital firm, Founders Fund, and in 1991 joined forces with Dr. Skolnick, a genetics researcher and professor at the university, to start Myriad.“The vision for the company was that we saw a paradigm shift in medicine,” Mr. Meldrum said in 2009, when he was inducted into the Utah Technology Council’s Hall of Fame. The shift was from treating diseases to preventing them, using the newly emerging tools of genetics.“I told Mark when we started Myriad that the odds of us being successful were one in 10 in the technology field,” Mr. Meldrum recalled in 2016, “so this was probably going to go nowhere. But I told him it’s a fascinating science and it’s going to be fun.”In response to critics of the BRCA patents, Mr. Meldrum and others argued that the ability to secure such patents was vital to encouraging biotech companies to pursue research.“Obviously, it’s not only important for Myriad but to the biotechnology and agriculture industries to reinforce the fact that you can get patents on genes,” Mr. Meldrum said in 2011, when an appeals court ruled in the company’s favor in the case that eventually went to the Supreme Court. “That will only encourage innovation and development of products that can save lives and improve the quality of lives.”As for the cost issue, he argued in a letter to the editor printed in The New York Times in 2013 that insurance made the cost of the test — about $3,000 at the time — negligible for most women, and that the company also had a patient assistance program that paid much or all of the cost for eligible women. More than a million women had used the company’s test at that point, the letter said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexander BurnsJoseph R. Biden Jr. defended his decision to praise an embattled Republican lawmaker during a paid speech in Michigan last fall, telling a group of mayors on Thursday morning that it reflected his philosophy of how to “get things done.”The New York Times reported on Wednesday that Mr. Biden had earned $200,000 for an October speaking engagement in Benton Harbor, Mich., three weeks before the midterm elections. During that speech, Mr. Biden gave a glowing commendation to Representative Fred Upton, a powerful Republican who joined with Mr. Biden to increase funding for cancer research and, separately, helped forge legislation to gut the Affordable Care Act.In Washington Thursday, Mr. Biden offered a forceful defense of his supportive remarks about Mr. Upton, signaling that he has no intention of blunting his instinct toward bipartisanship and compromise in the event that he runs for president. The former vice president has told allies in recent weeks that he is leaning toward running against President Trump in 2020.“I read in The New York Times today that I — that one of my problems is if I ever run for president, I like Republicans,” Mr. Biden said, according to a video posted by the public-affairs network C-Span.He joked: “O.K., well, bless me father, for I have sinned.”“Fred Upton, I went out and spoke at an event and he was there and I praised him about the fight against cancer,” Mr. Biden continued, citing Mr. Upton’s role in passing the 21st Century Cures Act. “It mattered, saved people’s lives and he stepped up, he and three other Republicans stepped up and helped us pass it. So I acknowledged that and now I’m — I don’t know what I am.”Mr. Biden did not mention the speaking fee he received for his trip to Michigan, or address Mr. Upton’s role in the drive to repeal the Obama administration’s signature health care law, two dimensions of his Benton Harbor appearance that complicate Mr. Biden’s depiction of his remarks as a case study in old-school conciliation.In a statement published Wednesday, Mr. Upton described Mr. Biden’s praise for him as a surprise and an “immense honor.”Mr. Biden campaigned widely around the country during the midterm elections and made a particularly strong effort for Democrats in the Midwest, including elsewhere in Michigan.But in Mr. Upton’s district, Mr. Biden’s favorable comments were used in Republican advertising in the final weeks of his re-election campaign against Matt Longjohn, a Democrat who was a national Y.M.C.A. health official. Mr. Upton ultimately won re-election by four and a half percentage points, the narrowest margin of his career.The article describing Mr. Biden’s speech to the Economic Club stirred particularly strong criticism of the former vice president among liberal Democrats, who view him as an ideological centrist and distrust his philosophy of aisle-crossing political compromise.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — Pop singer Celine Dion on Wednesday announced a world tour and a new album called "Courage" that she said was inspired by life after the death of her husband.Dion, 51, gave the news at a live performance show in Los Angeles that was broadcast on Facebook Live and watched by more than 11,000 fans around the world.The French-Canadian singer, best known for the "Titanic" movie theme song "My Heart Will Go On," has been performing in Las Vegas on and off since 2003 but said last year her concert residency in the city would end in June."I think it's time for a change, time to hit the road," she said on Wednesday.The "Courage" tour - her first in the United States for 10 years - will kick off in Quebec City, Canada in September. Dion said the album, also called "Courage," will be released "roughly in November." She did not give dates for the rest of the world.The singer said the album's title was inspired by the 2016 death from throat cancer of her husband and manager Rene Angelil. The couple had three children."When I lost Rene, he wanted me back on stage. He wanted to make sure I was still practicing my passion," she said. "I wanted to prove to him that I'm fine, we're fine, we're going to be ok. I've got this."Dion, a five-time Grammy winner, sang around the world in 2007 with her "Taking Chances" tour that was one of the highest-grossing tours of that year.She also performed in Asia and Australia in 2018 in support of her greatest hits album.AdvertisementSupported byPhys EdIf people start to exercise in midlife, even if they have not worked out for years, they can rapidly gain most of the longevity benefits of working out.By Gretchen ReynoldsA new study offers both hope and a subtle nudge to anyone who has slacked off on exercise in recent years. It finds that if people start to exercise in midlife, even if they have not worked out for years, they can rapidly gain most of the longevity benefits of working out. But the reverse is also true, the study finds. Stop exercising and those longevity benefits shrink or evaporate.We already have plenty of evidence that exercise affects how long and well we live. I’ve written about studies showing that older athletes develop and retain stronger bones, brains, hearts, muscles and immune systems than people of the same age who rarely work out.On a broader scale, epidemiological studies yoke frequent exercise to prolonged life spans, underscoring that active people are much less likely than the inactive to die prematurely.But most of those studies have looked at people and their exercise habits only once in their lives, rarely delving into what happens as someone’s workout routine waxes or wanes across the decades.So, for the new study, which was published this month in JAMA Network Open, researchers with the National Cancer Institute and other agencies turned to data from the N.I.H.-AARP Diet and Health Study, which helpfully had long pried into how people occupy their leisure time.The N.I.H.-AARP Diet and Health study began in 1995, enrolling hundreds of thousands of men and women between 50 and 71 years old and asking them to complete a series of questionnaires about their health.One of these went into detail about the volunteers’ physical activities throughout their lives, asking them to recall how frequently they had walked, played sports, jogged or otherwise worked out. The questionnaire focused primarily on deliberate exercise, but also covered incidental physical activity like household chores or yardwork.The questionnaire covered almost all points of the participants’ lives, asking about their teen years, then young adulthood from 19 to 29, fuller adulthood during their 30s and, finally, the past 10 years, when the volunteers would have been between 40 and 61.In the new study, the researchers drew the records of replies for 315,059 of the men and women, most of whom had completed their questionnaires about 13 years before. They checked answers and categorized people according to their reported exercise habits and whether and how they had altered over the years.Some of the men and women said they had been unwavering in their workout routines, spending about as many — or few — hours exercising in midlife as when they had been teenagers.Others had been active when young but tailed off as adults, remaining mostly sedentary during middle age. And a few had exercised often as teenagers and young adults, slowed or stopped as adults, but returned to regular exercise later in life.Finally, the researchers checked the National Death Index for deaths and their causes among the participants in the years since they had joined the health study and compared the risks of dying among the different groups. (They controlled for body mass, smoking and other health factors.)Not surprisingly, those men and women who had been sedentary throughout their lives were the most likely now to have died, particularly from heart disease.But those people who always had been active, exercising consistently for a few hours a week, were about 30 to 35 percent less likely to have passed away from any cause and about 40 percent less likely to have died of a heart attack than the consistently inactive people.More buoying, people who had stopped exercising for a decade or two but begun again during their 40s or 50s, working out then for a few hours a week, shared the same relative protection against premature death as the people who always had exercised.On the flip side, people who had been active and in shape as teenagers or young adults but sedentary in middle age seemed to lose any longevity benefits. They were as likely as the always-inactive group to have died.Of course, this study relied on people’s recall of their past behavior, which can be notoriously unreliable. It also is observational and can tell us that exercise in middle age is associated with a longer life, but not whether exercise causes us to live longer. Other factors are likely to be involved, including our diets, wealth, weight, general health and genes.AdvertisementSupported byBy Corey Kilgannon[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]In 1975, Chuck Wepner, a journeyman fighter known as the Bayonne Bleeder, was convinced he had snatched the world heavyweight title from Muhammad Ali after knocking the champ to the canvas in the ninth round of a matchup in Cleveland that just about everyone figured would be a cakewalk for Ali.“I headed back to my corner and said, ‘Start the car — we’re going to the bank, we’re millionaires,’” recalled Mr. Wepner, 80. “And my manager said, ‘You better turn around because he’s getting up.’’Ali rallied to score a technical knockout over Mr. Wepner, moments before the final bell, but the underdog from Bayonne, N.J., had succeeded in showing the world that he could go the distance with perhaps the greatest fighter ever.Mr. Wepner’s gutsy performance made an impression on many, including a struggling actor named Sylvester Stallone, who made it the climax of the screenplay he wrote for the 1976 film “Rocky.” The movie went on to win three Oscars, including best picture, and catapulted the young actor to stardom.Mr. Wepner went back to his job as a liquor salesman in Bayonne, a working-class town across the harbor from New York City. His waning boxing career gave way to a series of tough breaks, including a prison sentence and cancer.But the Bayonne Bleeder has enjoyed a comeback of sorts in recent years, as the subject of three films. “The Brawler,” starring Zach McGowan, opened in January. Before that there was a 2016 film, “Chuck” with Liev Schreiber. And in 2011 an ESPN documentary, “The Real Rocky,” named after Mr. Wepner’s other moniker around Bayonne, where he grew up in public housing and learned to use his fists in the streets and in barrooms.A huge mural looming over an auto shop on Broadway in Bayonne pays tribute to his folk hero status. But one tribute Mr. Wepner never got was a statue like the one dedicated to the character, Rocky Balboa, outside the Philadelphia Museum of Art, next to the steps the boxer famously ran up in the film.“That scene is based on me running up the steps in Hudson County Park as part of my workouts,” said Mr. Wepner. “But it was Rocky, a fictional boxer, who got the statue.”But now Mr. Wepner is getting his statue, at the site of the actual training steps. A longtime friend of Mr. Wepner’s who owns a tire repair shop has raised enough money to commission one.“Chuck has always represented Bayonne, so we want a proper representation of him here — something that shows that he’s the real Rocky,” said Bruce Dillin, who has turned the waiting room of Dillin Tire, on Kennedy Boulevard, into a crowdsourced Chuck Wepner museum, filled with memorabilia largely donated by local friends of Mr. Wepner.Tire ads and displays of transmission and brake fluid share space with images and mementos from Mr. Wepner’s career, including fight posters, boxing equipment and video clips.The posters include a shot of Mr. Wepner in his boxing trunks, posing in a muffler ad for the shop. He agreed to appear in the ad “for a flat repair and an oil change,” Mr. Dillin joked.After being knocked down by Mr. Wepner, Ali got up and won the match. But Mr. Wepner’s performance became the climax of “Rocky,’' which was written by Sylvester Stallone, at the time a little-known actor.To have the Wepner statue made, Mr. Dillin said he initially asked A. Thomas Schomberg, the artist who created the Rocky statue in Philadelphia. But Mr. Schomberg, according to Mr. Dillin, typically charges around $500,000 for such a job. So he turned to Wu Zhen, a painter and sculptor who happens to have a studio next door to the tire shop.“Bruce bothered me everyday, he tortured me, until I agreed to do it,” said Mr. Wu, who charged $40,000, which he said barely covered his materials. The eight-foot-tall model of Mr. Wepner is complete, and Mr. Dillin is raising money to have it cast in bronze.Mr. Wepner, who lives in an apartment with a view of his old high school, said he had many opportunities to move out of Bayonne once his profile as a fighter rose.“Bayonne’s been so great to me, so why should I leave?” said Mr. Wepner, who presides over the town like an unofficial mayor — and that’s according to the official mayor, Jimmy Davis.“Chuck was the epitome of what Bayonne was. It was a blue-collar town and Chuck was a blue-collar fighter,” Mr. Davis said. “Even today, he’s probably one of the biggest cheerleaders for Bayonne.”Mr. Schreiber agreed.“It’s not just Bayonne — he’s the mayor wherever he goes,” said Mr. Schreiber, who recently accompanied Mr. Wepner to boxing matches at Madison Square Garden. “Every cop in the Garden said hello to him, and so did every fighter on our way to our seats.”Mr. Wepner was recently treated for rectal cancer, enduring three surgeries, radiation and chemotherapy, but he seems to have lost none of his trademark charisma. He is still a fixture around town, driving around in his Lincoln with the “CHAMP” license plate and mini-gloves dangling from the mirror.Mr. Wepner turned pro in 1964 and worked his way up from smoky joints in the Bayonne area to taking on such prominent fighters as George Foreman and Sonny Liston. The Liston fight left him with a broken nose, a broken cheekbone, 71 stitches in his face — and his Bayonne Bleeder nickname.Of 52 pro fights and nearly 100 amateur bouts, Mr. Wepner said he won most of them. “And in bar fights,” he said, “I’m undefeated.”Then there were the moneymaking gimmick matchups late in his career. In 1976, he fought a 1,250-pound grizzly bear and took on the professional wrestler André the Giant, who stood 7 feet 4 inches and tossed Mr. Wepner out of the ring long before Hulk Hogan did the same to Mr. Stallone in “Rocky 3.”Other aspects of Mr. Wepner’s life reflected in the “Rocky” films include him as an enforcer for local moneylenders. Then there was his trainer, Dominick Bufano — “The real Mickey,” Mr. Wepner said, referring to the character in “Rocky’’ — who jumped in front of Ali and gave him an “evil-eye” curse before the fight. Mr. Wepner was a 40-to-1 underdog and earned $100,000 for the fight, by far the biggest purse of his career.Mr. Wepner’s business card touts his Ali and “Rocky” claims to fame, and on the back, bears a photo of the Ali knockdown.As the “Rocky” franchise grew with sequels, Mr. Wepner said he had never received payment, even though Mr. Stallone had added to the value of the movies by repeatedly naming him as Rocky’s real-life counterpart.The actor did invite Mr. Wepner to audition for a minor role in “Rocky 2,’’ Mr. Wepner recalled, “but I blew the audition because I had been on a bender for two days.”So in 2003, Mr. Wepner sued Mr. Stallone, arguing that the actor had inappropriately used his name to promote the movies without compensating him.The case resulted in a private settlement, whose sum Mr. Wepner would not disclose, other than saying that, “I still have to work for a living.”“I always loved the guy — he made me Rocky — but I needed him to acknowledge that I was the real Rocky,” said Mr. Wepner, who still works in liquor sales, as does his wife, Linda.In the late 1980s he served 22 months in prison after being arrested with four ounces of cocaine. Mr. Wepner said he has been sober for years, but still has trouble sticking to the strict diet required after his cancer surgeries.In front of the tire store on a recent weekday, he grabbed his second chili dog from a hot dog cart and motioned to a group of locals who had stopped to chat.“Everything I’ve achieved, it all comes from my city,” he said. “So I’ll always be true-blue Bayonne.”How students can build positive networks, learning from the hospital, teaching resilience — and more. A collection of views and news from a special report on Learning.CreditCreditIngo FastSupported byElla Greene never liked math. Then the 9-year-old got bone cancer and went to Nemours Children’s Hospital in Orlando, Fla. Last November, toward the end of Ella’s year of treatment, PedsAcademy opened at the hospital, bringing virtual reality field trips, robots and math lessons that didn’t feel like school.“I used to struggle with multiplying and stuff, but now I’m really good at it,” Ella said. “And it’s fun to do.”PedsAcademy tailors instruction to students’ specific needs, both medical and academic. Children with bone cancers, like Ella, tend to have muscle weakness and fatigue, for example. PedsAcademy teachers — faculty and students from the University of Central Florida — designed lessons to keep her active.When Ella took a virtual field trip to swim with sea turtles, the breast stroke she did from her hospital bed worked her muscles. And what seemed like a fun underwater jaunt was actually a math lesson in disguise, devised to help Ella work on a subject she had trouble with. Knowing the dimensions of a piece of a sunken ship, Ella was asked to estimate the size of other things underwater.PedsAcademy also includes lessons in science, literacy, engineering and the humanities. Children don’t get credits from the program, but the lessons offer an opportunity to keep them engaged in learning at a time when it’s easy to do the opposite.Aleshia Greene, Ella’s mother, worried about her daughter’s education when she learned that she had cancer. Besides the concern with falling behind, Ms. Greene said there were many hours to fill during long days in the hospital. Through the program, Ella got to fill them with virtual trips to Egypt, the Grand Canyon and the Great Barrier Reef. And she’s in the process of building a robotic version of her dog, River.“You really don’t feel like you’re doing school,” Ella said. “You’re actually doing the most fun thing you’ve ever done.”PedsAcademy is believed to be the first of its kind, but since most children’s hospitals are affiliated with universities, and since many universities have schools of education, the ingredients for replicating the model are there.At Nemours, PedsAcademy pairs personalized medicine with personalized learning.For Ella, that means the prospect of re-enrolling in her home school after a year of cancer treatments with a newfound passion, and aptitude, for math. —Tara García MathewsonLeeAna Espinoza Salas said she was a “super-timid, super-shy, super-reserved” high school freshman when she arrived on the campus of the University of California, Riverside, for a summer program to introduce young people like her to college.There was something else about Ms. Salas that required the additional encouragement: She’s Native American, part of the Cahuilla tribe of Southern California.Native Americans are almost invisible at nontribal colleges, making up only 1 percent of students. Just one in five who finish high school go on to higher education, the Education Department says, compared with 70 percent of other high school graduates. Among those who do go, barely 40 percent earn degrees within six years.To bolster their self-confidence, the Gathering of the Tribes at Riverside accepts 30 to 50 Native American high school students, mostly from California, for eight days each summer and has them live in dorms, take classes, and learn time management and how to write admission essays — interspersed with talking circles, singing, drumming and other cultural elements.“You just see them blossom,” said Josh Gonzales, the director. “They get the ability to speak, to talk about who they are and where they’re coming from.”Over 14 summers, 93 percent of participants have gone on to some form of higher education, according to the university, which just got $1.28 million from the nearby San Manuel Band of Mission Indians to support the program.Ms. Salas, now a senior at Riverside, plans to get a master’s degree in American Indian studies and help develop similar programs, which she said made students “hold each other accountable, whether academically or on a personal basis. It’s like you’re guaranteed a friend. You have someone you can rely on.” —Jon MarcusThe mission of most schools is to expand what students know. But maybe they should care about the people students know, too. That’s the core argument of a new book by Julia Freeland Fisher, director of education at the innovation-focused Christensen Institute. And technology, Ms. Freeland Fisher writes in “Who You Know: Unlocking Innovations That Expand Students’ Networks,” can be a powerful tool in that effort.Networks matter Children from wealthy, highly educated families inherit connections that help them get into college, find good jobs and become successful adults. Schools can help level the playing field by expanding all students’ networks.Exposure is enough A variety of technologies can connect students virtually with industry experts or mentors, and even if the connections don’t result in enduring relationships, the exposure can still introduce them to career paths and life advice they wouldn’t have otherwise.Rethinking school offers results While it’s significantly more work, schools that redesign their curriculum and instructional model to prioritize relationship-building can have a major impact on students.The Christensen Institute tracks a growing list of technologies that help connect students to people outside their classrooms, at whoyouknow.org. And Ms. Freeland Fisher has begun to study higher education, searching for the tech tools that expand the networks of older students. The value of this work can seem clearer for people so close to the job market. But Ms. Freeland Fisher makes the case that our economy and global competitiveness depend on early thinking about student networks. —Tara García MathewsonJohn Matthew Diaz was 13 when he left the Philippines to join his mother in New York City, where she worked. Three days later he was sitting at a middle school desk, staring at an end-of-semester exam. It was in English, of course — not his native Tagalog — and he found it bewildering.The next fall, he landed at the International High School for Health Sciences in Elmhurst, Queens — one of 15 New York City public high schools in the Internationals Network, which enroll only recently arrived refugees and immigrants who are not fluent in English.Today, Mr. Diaz, 20, is a sophomore at John Jay College of Criminal Justice at the City University of New York.“I was in class, listening to the professor explain how to write a research paper,” he said. “I thought, this is exactly what my teachers said I would see in college — here it is, and I already know how to do it.”About 70 percent of these newcomers, nearly all from low-income families, enroll in college after graduating from an Internationals high school, which matches the nationwide average for all students. Their success comes in part from the network’s model, which doesn’t require students to be fluent in English before they take difficult classes in math, science or history. The schools also have college counselors on staff.Last year, Mr. Diaz won second place for the best freshman inquiry-based paper at John Jay.“To win something like that,” he said, “it’s mind-blowing to me.” —Meredith KolodnerSchool Improvement Grants, started under President George W. Bush, received a $7 billion investment under President Barack Obama. A 2017 report said the program had no effect nationally. But a closer look by FutureEd at Georgetown University found improvements in 70 percent of state and city studies.LEARNING MORE A traditional school year delivers about 10 months of learning for each student. Higher test scores, at schools receiving grants, suggest that students gained the equivalent of one to seven additional months of learning compared with similar schools without the federal program.IMPROVEMENTSDECLINESLawrence,Mass.DenverMASS.OHIOCOLO.N.C.CALIF.TENN.SanFranciscoTEXASHoustonAdditional (or fewer) equivalent months of learning:OVERALL LEARNING N.C.+4 MONTHSCalif.+3READINGMass.+6Ohio+6San Fran.+3Tenn.+3Texas(grades 9-11)+1Texas (grades 4-8)–4These students had the equivalent of 4 fewer months of learningMATHDenver+7San Fran.+5Houston+5Mass.+4Tenn.+4N.C.+4Lawrence, Mass.+3Texas(grades 9-11)+1Texas (grades 4-8)–3SCIENCEN.C.+6Tenn.+5LEARNING MORE IMPROVEMENTSDECLINESA traditional school year delivers about 10 months of learning for each student. Higher test scores, at schools receiving grants, suggest that students gained the equivalent of one to seven additional months of learning compared with similar schools without the federal program.Lawrence,Mass.MASS.N.Y.DenverOHIOCOLO.CALIF.N.C.TENN.SanFranciscoTEXASHoustonAdditional (or fewer) equivalent months of learning:+4 MONTHSNorth CarolinaOVERALL LEARNING +3CaliforniaREADING+6Massachusetts+6OhioThese students had the equivalent of 4 fewer months of learning+3San Francisco+3Tennessee+1Texas (grades 9-11)–4Texas (grades 4-8)MATH+7Denver+5San Francisco+5Houston+4Massachusetts+4Tennessee+4North Carolina+3Lawrence, Mass.+1Texas (grades 9-11)–3Texas (grades 4-8)SCIENCE+6North Carolina+5TennesseeBy The New York Times | Source: FutureEd at Georgetown University McCourt School of Public Policy — Why It’s Wrong to Write Off the SIG ProgramThe first few months of a new job can be daunting for anyone. Now, imagine that your closest friend is in critical condition after being shot, a customer gets in your face and uses a racial epithet, or your couch-hopping luck runs out and you are homeless.These are the sorts of situations that Wendy Prudencio had in mind when she developed a job-readiness curriculum for young people who have experienced gang violence and the criminal justice system.“There is a sense that if you do all this, if you check all these boxes, you’ll be successful,” Ms. Prudencio, associate program director with the Citizens Crime Commission of New York City, said of most work force preparation programs. “It’s very disheartening for young people, especially vulnerable young people, when they are met with the reality of the world.”Her program, which is being piloted by three city nonprofits, introduces young adults not only to the particulars of career planning, résumé writing and interviewing (though there is plenty of that), but also to how to handle difficult situations on the job. Classes tackle microaggressions, privilege and coping with feedback.At a recent session in Coney Island, Ruanita Davis-Freeman led a discussion on how to handle a nasty customer. One student recalled a customer’s grabbing him by the jacket; another talked about asking his boss to intervene with an uncooperative customer.While Ms. Davis-Freeman tailored her thoughts for the young people before her, some advice was universal: “Patience is something in a workplace you must have. A person without patience doesn’t work their way up, they work their way out.” —Caroline PrestonWe asked teachers if they consciously taught resilience, or related topics like “grit” or “growth mind-set.” Their responses have been edited and condensed. Michele SeraJohn B. Murphy Elementary School, Chicago“I teach growth mind-set and embed grit in our social studies and reading. A student commented that even though people may die, their ideas live on, so you shouldn’t give up because someone else can see your idea through.”Nicole ChuThe Computer School, M.S. 245, New York City“I want my students to not just ‘study’ resilience from diverse voices, but to discover their own voice while making a difference in our community.” David FlackFranklin Police and Fire High School, Phoenix“Our students have been forced to be resilient with parents and grandparents being deported due to immigration status. Resiliency isn’t part of a prescribed curriculum, it is a core survival skill.”Ariel PratoM.S. 447, Baltimore“Grit is a word used often in underserved schools and communities of color to tell our kids that if they show enough grit, they will perform well — yet, it is most often these students who are showing the most grit every single day coming to school in the face of many systemic hardships.”Cecily LawrenceRoslyn High School and Roslyn Middle School, Roslyn Heights, N.Y.AdvertisementSupported byYou AskedTips for dealing with pelvic pain during an OB-GYN exam.By Jen Gunter, M.D.I have vaginismus, and though I’ve undergone physical therapy for it, pap smears are still unbearably painful — it basically feels like I’m being stabbed. Is there any way to tell my doctor that an Ativan and a Tylenol won’t cut it? Or am I doomed to never get a pelvic exam ever again?— Molly from N.Y.C.Pap smears should not be painful, and they are most definitely not something to endure. In fact, each painful pelvic exam or Pap smear can further increase your pain, which worsens your underlying condition, never mind causing stress and trauma. There are definitely options to reduce your pain.[Have a question about women’s health? Ask Dr. Gunter yourself.] Pap smears and pelvic exams should not be painful, and I am sorry for your experience. As an OB/GYN and pain medicine physician I cannot say this enough: A painful pelvic exam should be stopped. For someone who historically has suffered with pain during pelvic exams or who has underlying pelvic pain and is understandably apprehensive about an exam there are several options:Find someone with expertise in doing pelvic exams for women who have pelvic pain. As a pelvic pain specialist, I see women every day who tell me that my exam was their first pain-free Pap smear. I am so happy to help them, but it also makes me want to cry because it shouldn’t be that way. An experienced provider should allow enough time (feeling rushed helps no one relax) and may be able to coach you in other ways to help you relax your pelvic floor muscles. Some other options that can help reduce pain are applying topical numbing medication to the vaginal opening and using a narrow vaginal speculum that is about the size of a finger. Sometimes, I even have my patient insert the speculum herself. A vaginal sample for H.P.V. (human papilloma virus) testing instead of a Pap smear. For women who are 30 years or older, H.P.V. testing can be used for cervical cancer screening. Technically H.P.V. testing as currently recommended is a swab from the cervix (so a speculum is needed), but there is data showing self-collected vaginal samples may be as accurate. Your provider could collect the swab this way without a speculum or you could collect it yourself. Inserting a vaginal swab on your own without need for a speculum or a provider to touch you may be a far less painful and fear-inducing option.AdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Andy Mills and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Paige Cowett, Wendy Dorr and Larissa AndersonA second person appears to have been cured of infection with the virus that causes AIDS. We spoke to an activist about what this means.Thursday, March 21st, 2019michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Earlier this month, a second person was cured of H.I.V., something that, after three decades of fighting for a cure, scientists and activists had almost given up on. How we got here. It’s Thursday, March 21. So Peter Staley, when did you first hear about H.I.V. and AIDS? Where were you? And what was going on in your life?peter staleyI think I first heard about AIDS probably a year into the crisis, in 1982.archived recordingIt’s mysterious. It’s deadly. And it’s baffling medical science.peter staleyLike, the first mainstream television report.archived recording 1The lifestyle of some male homosexuals has triggered an epidemic.archived recording 2Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, or the acronym by which it’s frequently identified, AIDS.peter staleyAnd I was still in college at Oberlin.archived recordingResearchers are now studying blood and other samples from the victims, trying to learn what is causing the disease. So far they have had no luck.peter staleyIt seemed like this strange mystery. I’m not sure how applicable it felt to my life.archived recording 1Investigators have examined the habits of homosexuals for clues.archived recording 2I was in the fast lane at one time in terms of the way that I lived my life. And now I’m not.peter staleyI was a closeted homosexual, certainly wasn’t hearing about it on campus at all. And then I came to New York in about April of ‘83 for this new job on Wall Street and had my first conversations with other gay men. And at least in my generation, the very young twenty-somethings, often closeted, it still seemed remote. We were telling each other that it was mostly happening in older gay men and those who had been highly, highly prolific in their sexuality.michael barbaroMm-hmm.peter staleySo fast forward a couple of years —archived recordingTo begin with, AIDS was just an obscure medical curiosity —peter staley— I’m now a bond trader on Wall Street.archived recording 1— a strange illness affecting a handful of homosexuals and drug abusers in American cities. Today, the virus has claimed thousands of lives and threatens millions more.archived recording 2When the AIDS alarm sounded four years ago, most people knew little or nothing about the disease, much less knew anyone who had it. Now, as the number of cases doubles every six months, that profile is changing.peter staleyAnd AIDS has finally become a massive story in the country.archived recordingSome might be led to believe that the disease is leveling off. It is not.peter staleyAnd not in a good way.archived recording 1Many researchers would argue that the number of cases is actually 10 times higher than those reported by the Centers for Disease Control.archived recording 2You know, they should just come out and tell people.peter staleyThe country was in a panic.archived recordingYou know, because everybody’s scared.peter staleyThere were cover stories on all the national magazines about AIDS. Parents were pulling their kids out of schools if there were rumors about a child having H.I.V.archived recording 1These people are raising money and signing petitions in a fight to keep Ryan White out of their school.archived recording 2If he has a spill on a table, a chair, your daughter comes in, touches it, what’s to say she is not going to get it?peter staleyAnd I sat down with my kind of new-ish boyfriend at the time —archived recording (speaker 1)Breakfast is served.archived recording (speaker 2)Thanks. We’re almost out of shaving cream.archived recording (speaker 1)Oh, O.K.peter staley— to watch the very first television movie about the subject, which was called “An Early Frost.”archived recordingSo how’d it go with your folks?peter staleyAnd Aidan Quinn was the star.archived recordingYou didn’t tell them, did you?peter staleyHe played a closeted gay man —archived recording (speaker 1)Look. I don’t have the same relationship with my parents that you have with yours. O.K.? I don’t talk about sex with them. They don’t talk about sex with me.archived recording (speaker 2)Who’s talking about sex? We’re talking about us.peter staley— who gets hit by AIDS with P.C.P. pneumonia, which was the common killer back then.archived recording[COUGHING]peter staleyAnd I’m sitting here watching this thing, and I’ve got a bad cough.archived recording (speaker 1)Why don’t you go home?archived recording (speaker 2)I was hoping you’d say that. How about you?archived recording (speaker 1)[COUGHING] I want to check these sites first.peter staleyAnd Aidan Quinn is coughing away, acting like he has P.C.P. pneumonia.archived recording[COUGHING] [BODY FALLING TO FLOOR] Michael!peter staleyAnd during one of the commercial breaks, I’m hacking away. And this boyfriend leans over and says, you sound just like him.archived recording[GROANING] [DISTANT COUGHING]peter staleyFortunately, I had a gay doctor in New York City, a guy named Dan William. At that point, Dan was so paranoid about the health of all his patients that if you went in there with anything, he would run a C.B.C., a complete blood count, just a regular blood test. 48 hours after that appointment, I got a call from his nurse while I was at my trading desk. I remember it very clearly. It was a Friday morning. And he said, there’s an abnormality on your test, and Dan would like you to come in for some more blood work. I pressed him, and he said, it might be indication of AIDS. Right then and there, I just knew that that’s what it was. I felt like I’d been handed a death sentence. That’s kind of the classic story. I sat down on my bed and started crying because I realized how screwed I was. So at that point, it became a game of where can I find treatments to buy me a year, some months, a few years, buy me some time.michael barbaroAnd what was the answer? Where could you and did you go for treatments at this phase?peter staleyThere was nothing. There were no treatments approved at that point. But the first thing I did after my diagnosis was go home and tell my family. And they rallied to my side. It was just wonderful. So I had this initial support group. But I still felt very alone. I hadn’t met another person with H.I.V. So I finally got myself to an H.I.V. support group at G.M.H.C.michael barbaroGay Men’s Health Crisis.peter staleyRight. And I actually didn’t like what I was hearing.michael barbaroWhy not?peter staleyThey were living in the stigma. They were all saying they had stopped having sex. They felt like they were walking around with a scarlet letter. They were filled with fear about dying any day. They were in full trauma mode rather than fight mode. But there was this one guy across from me who spoke up. And [CHUCKLES] he was a character. He was in leather. And he had kind of spiked hair and very goth. And he said, well, I don’t know what you’re all talking about. I’m not going to stop living. And my eyes widened. And it was like, yeah, this is the guy I’ve got to get to know.[music] His name was Griffin Gold. And it was just such great luck, because he was one of the leaders of the self-empowerment movement of people with AIDS in the country.archived recordingWhat’s going to happen to stop this epidemic? When is this government gonna start to care about the people who are dying?peter staleyAnd he started tying me into this early activism.archived recordingAct up! Fight back! Fight AIDS!peter staleyAnd then all of us got lucky six months after that when Act Up was born.archived recording (larry kramer)There’s a new AIDS death every half hour. There’s a new HIV infection every single minute.peter staleyAct Up was really in response to a call by Larry Kramer —archived recording (larry kramer)I think the groundswell of new chapters, of new members, is very similar to what happened during the Vietnam War, where people got so angry at the government that they were forced into this frustration.peter staley— saying that people weren’t aware enough and weren’t fighting back. And he wanted a political response.archived recording (larry kramer)We are in the middle of a plague!peter staleyAnd I had this crazy first year with Act Up where I was still working on Wall Street. So I had to keep my activism kind of in the closet, as it were. And then after about a year of that, the game was kind of up. My CD4 count crashed below 200. In my head I knew from the science that that usually would start kind of this clock. That people who had less than 200 CD4 cells were dying of AIDS in about two years. So I felt a clock had started, and I only had two years left. But I couldn’t keep trying to trade bonds on Wall Street. So the very next morning after that CD4 count, I walked into my boss’s office and told him everything, and said, I’m walking out of here now, and this is my last day.michael barbaroAnd so what do you do next?peter staleyI go full in on Act Up.archived recordingGay people and straight people, black people and white people, men and women will hear the story that once there was a terrible disease. And that a brave group of people stood up and fought and, in some cases, died so that others might live and be free.peter staleyIt became my church. It became my family. It became my social life. And it started keeping me alive.archived recording 1And after we kicked the shit out of this disease, I intend to be alive to kick the shit out of the system so that this will never happen again. Thank you. [CHEERING]archived recording 2You are all under arrest for disorderly conduct. [CROWD CHANTING]peter staleyTwo weeks after I left Wall Street —archived recording— additional charge of resisting arrest will be —peter staley— I got arrested on Wall Street —michael barbaroWow.peter staley— for Act Up’s one-year anniversary.archived recording(CHANTING) Fight back! Fight AIDS! Act up!michael barbaroWhat was the next big public action that you took with Act Up?peter staleyThe F.D.A., the Food and Drug Administration.archived recording(CHANTING) — from AIDS. Where was the F.D.A.? 42,000 deaths from AIDS. Where was the F.D.A.?peter staleyOctober 11, 1988 —archived recording(CHANTING) No more business as usual! No more business as usual!peter staleyIt lasted all day, there were over 1,000 demonstrators from ACT Up chapters in Rockville, Maryland surrounding the Food and Drug Administration.archived recordingWe’re here today. We’re old. We’re young. We’re gay. We’re straight. We’re here today because we want to make a difference. We’re here today because we care.peter staleyAnd it was surrounded by hundreds of police officers.archived recording 1I see some of your men are wearing plastic gloves. Did the department provide them?archived recording 2Yes.archived recording 1Why?archived recording 2That’s up to the individual officers to whether he wants to wear them or does not want to wear them — whatever made him feel comfortable.peter staleyAnd I wanted to do something that would get my fellow activists riled up.archived recording[CROWD CHEERING]peter staleyI had noticed this overhang over the front door. And I was trying to figure out how I could get past 30 cops to get up onto that. And so me and two friends just walked towards them, like we wanted to negotiate or talk with them. And we came within about six feet of the front line, which was just below the outer edge of the overhang. And just when we got there, my friends clasped their hands together. And I put my right foot in, and I was launched — just as the cops sprang forward, trying to catch me.archived recording[CROWD CHEERING]peter staleyAnd I started hanging this huge banner.archived recordingSilence equals death! Silence equals death!peter staleyIt said “silence equals death” over the front entrance of the F.D.A. And all the activists converged at the front door and started cheering and hooting and hollering. It was very symbolic of how we were seizing the building that day.[music]peter staleyFor many Americans, it was the first time they had seen large numbers of gay men and lesbians taking to the streets and determined and angry and unified. I think we destroyed the American myth that the homosexual is weak and timid and when threatened, will cower in a corner.michael barbaroAnd what was your message to the F.D.A. in that moment when you are scaling the building and unfurling this sign that says silence equals death?peter staleyWe wanted them to create an entirely different regulatory scheme for how they analyzed drugs for life-threatening illnesses, like AIDS, versus other drugs. We wanted them to work proactively with pharmaceutical companies to speed the development of drugs, to make sure that their clinical trials would enroll quickly and get data quickly. We wanted them to approve drugs as soon as possible. And we wanted them to open up a mechanism whereby people who weren’t in the clinical trials could still access some experimental therapies before they were approved. And to our amazement, within about a year of that action, we got almost all of that out of the F.D.A. We may not have convinced Americans to love us or to tolerate us. But Americans do not like to hear that their own government is letting thousands of their own citizens die.[music]archived recordingWhen the living can no longer speak, the dead may speak for them.peter staleySo by ‘91 and ‘92, we’re an incredibly busy movement with almost weekly demonstrations. But every week we start our Monday night meetings with an announcement of who had died that week.archived recordingI’d like to read something that Mark wrote and wants us to do today, very furiously.peter staleyAnd all of us are going to memorials every month.archived recordingSeveral months before his death, Mark said, I want my funeral to be fierce and defiant.peter staleySo we were winning all these battles, but we were losing the war. The death count just kept rising and rising.archived recordingLet the whole earth hear us now. We beg, we pray, we demand that this epidemic end![music]peter staleyWe just gave up on the idea that we were going to find a cure. The virus was just too complex. But we were hoping to shake out enough drugs that we could find a magic combination that would add up to real time added to people’s lives. That was our new hope in the early ‘90s. And we kept fighting for that and fighting for that. And finally — finally, we got lucky.archived recording (david ho)We came to the conclusion that it’s inevitable for H.I.V. to develop drug resistance if you give it one drug at a time. However, if you start to combine the drugs and try to force the virus into a corner using multiple drugs, it is exceedingly difficult for H.I.V. to become —peter staleyIn 1996, scientists announced that if you use three drugs at the same time — that was the magic number — you could stop the replication of H.I.V. in a patient.archived recording (david ho)By spring of 1996, we had three different trials using a protease inhibitor, plus two other drugs.peter staleyAnd Dr. David Ho, who is very involved with this discovery and presented the data —archived recording (david ho)We knew that unlike previous experience, the virus was coming under control and staying there.peter staley— he started speculating that if patients stayed on these regimens, that maybe the immune system would knock out the rest of the virus on its own over time.archived recording (david ho)And so we were pretty excited.peter staleyThese current regimens might lead to what they called eradication, i.e. cure. And we’re talking to ourselves, and we’re saying, what if this is real? And we just couldn’t believe it after all this time. We all started on these triple-drug regimens. And within three months, we were all undetectable. Then it was like, wow, this is it. This is huge.michael barbaroThat’s amazing.peter staleyYeah. The death rate in the U.S. over the next two years dropped by 75 percent, just a huge shift in the pandemic.michael barbaroBut did it mean that H.I.V. was really being eradicated from your system?peter staleyNo. No, but it took us a couple of years to figure that out. And they started learning more and more about how even wilier this virus is and how it is able to protect itself and hide in your body in all sorts of cellular compartments. It hides in cells that line your G.I. tract. It hides in your brain. It hides in macrophage cells. The basic science that started following from this was endlessly depressing. And within, I would say, five years, the talk of cure had just vanished. So by the time we get to 2007, there is no cure research going on. Everybody’s kind of resigned to the fact that the virus is too wily and has too many hiding places in the body to get it out. And then all of a sudden, this news breaks —archived recordingHe is the only person ever to be cured of H.I.V. and AIDS. His cure was somewhat of an accident.peter staley— that somebody has been cured of AIDS. And it was like, what? [LAUGHS]archived recordingThe only man believed to have been cured of H.I.V. spoke today at the International AIDS Conference in Washington. His name is Timothy Brown. He is also known as the Berlin patient.peter staleyThey had this fellow called the Berlin patient —archived recordingDoctors in Germany used an experimental radiation treatment to wipe out Brown’s immune system. They gave him two bone-marrow transplants. And the results were remarkable.peter staley— who also was suffering from very advanced cancer.archived recording 1Doctors in Germany wiped out his immune system with chemotherapy and radiation and then gave him two rounds of stem cell transplants.archived recording 2His bone marrow donor had a rare gene mutation that made the donor and now Brown’s stem cells resistant to H.I.V.peter staleyThis new immune system grew out of this bone marrow, and it worked. If there was any H.I.V. hiding anywhere in his body, it had nothing to latch onto in order to replicate.michael barbaroAnd so it died.peter staleyAnd so it died.michael barbaroSo the idea is that this person who was immune to H.I.V., that if you take their bone marrow and introduce it into the system of an H.I.V.-positive person, the Berlin patient —peter staleyRight.michael barbaro— and the Berlin patient’s immune system starts to develop around that bone marrow that’s immune to H.I.V, that the entire patient becomes immune to H.I.V.?peter staleyExactly. And so that just cracked open everybody’s imaginations. And cure research was back on the agenda. A whole field of research was born, trying to figure out how we could do this without wiping out a person’s immune system first, without a bone-marrow transplant.michael barbaroRight, because it would be almost impossible to replicate this on a big scale.peter staleyExactly. And there were other attempts to replicate what happened with Timothy Brown and the Berlin patient. But unfortunately, they failed. They tried this in other people with H.I.V. that had cancer that needed bone-marrow transplants. There was a period of time where it looked like they had undetectable H.I.V. after the transplant, but then it bounced back. And so there were some disappointments.[music]peter staleyAnd so what happened two weeks ago —archived recordingResearchers say the latest success confirms that a cure for H.I.V. infection is possible.peter staley— was proof that what happened in the Berlin patient was not a fluke.archived recordingIt comes 12 years after American Timothy Brown, known as the Berlin patient, became the first known adult to be cured. Both patients underwent stem cell transplants from donors who carried a rare genetic mutation that made them resistant to H.I.V. Doctors say this second success —peter staleyWe’re not rushing to the hospital to get bone-marrow transplants. But I was thrilled to hear this news mostly because I think it’s going to probably get us quicker to that day when we ultimately find a gene therapy that does the same thing.michael barbaroPeter, your entire adult life has been focused on advancing treatment for H.I.V. and AIDS. And it’s remarkable how much advancement has occurred and that you’ve witnessed. If you live long enough to experience a cure, and, of course, we all hope you do, what will you do then?peter staleyWell, since 2008, I really do love the idea that I’m probably going to be there when it happens, that I’m going to witness that.archived recording (speaker 1)I just want to be there if they ever do find a cure.archived recording (speaker 2)Can you imagine what it would be like?peter staleyIt’s going to be like that last scene in “Longtime Companion,” that great AIDS film, where —archived recording[CHEERING CROWD] [LAUGHTER]peter staley— the dream sequence at the end of the movie, where all the people who have died of AIDS come back and celebrate on a sunny day on the beach in Fire Island. And everybody’s partying. It’s like a big gay disco. But it’s everybody we’ve lost, and they’re just celebrating.archived recordingWilly! Hey, Will, it’s me. [GUITAR MUSIC] [LAUGHTER]peter staleyIt might be like that.[music]peter staleyNow I’m going to be an ex-AIDS activist. [LAUGHS] And I’m going to do something else and be glad for it and be proud.michael barbaroI hope that you will be an ex-AIDS activist, Peter. And I look forward to chatting with you when that day comes.peter staleyYeah, me too. [CHUCKLES]michael barbaroThank you very much. We appreciate it.peter staleyYou’re welcome.[music]michael barbaroPeter Staley is now directing his activism toward greater awareness and access to a drug, Truvada, that is 99 percent effective in preventing H.I.V. infections but remains unaffordable to large numbers of people in the U.S. and the world, where H.I.V. infections are on the rise.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherFor only the second time since the start of a global epidemic, a person was reported this month to have been cured of H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. Scientists and activists had almost given up on reaching that milestone. Here’s a look at how we got to this point.[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on “The Daily” podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On today’s episode:Peter Staley, a longtime AIDS activist.Background reading:This milestone comes 12 years after the first person known to be cured of H.I.V. Like the first cure, it was the result of a bone-marrow transplant intended to treat cancer.Translating this success into a practical treatment will take years, if it happens at all. Here are answers to key questions about the search for a cure.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Lori GottliebTHE UNWINDING OF THE MIRACLE A Memoir of Life, Death, and Everything That Comes After By Julie Yip-WilliamsWhen we meet Julie Yip-Williams at the beginning of “The Unwinding of the Miracle,” her eloquent, gutting and at times disarmingly funny memoir, she has already died, having succumbed to colon cancer in March 2018 at the age of 42, leaving behind her husband and two young daughters. And so she joins the recent spate of debuts from dead authors, including Paul Kalanithi and Nina Riggs, who also documented their early demises. We might be tempted to assume that these books were written mostly for the writers themselves, as a way to make sense of a frightening diagnosis and uncertain future; or for their families, as a legacy of sorts, in order to be known more fully while alive and kept in mind once they were gone.By dint of being published, though, they were also written for us — strangers looking in from the outside. From our seemingly safe vantage point, we’re granted the privilege of witnessing a life-altering experience while knowing that we have the luxury of time. We can set the book down and mindlessly scroll through Twitter, defer our dreams for another year or worry about repairing a rift later, because our paths are different.Except that’s not entirely true. Life has a 100 percent mortality rate; each of us will die, and most of us have no idea when. Therefore, Yip-Williams tells us, she has set out to write an “exhortation” to us in our complacency: “Live while you’re living, friends.”Before her diagnosis in 2013, Yip-Williams had done more than her share of living. It was, indeed, something of a miracle that she was alive at age 37 when she traveled to a family wedding and ended up in the hospital where she received her cancer diagnosis. Born poor and blind to Chinese parents in postwar Vietnam, she was sentenced to death by her paternal grandmother, who believed that her disability would bring shame to the family and render her an unmarriageable burden. But when her parents brought her to an herbalist and asked him to euthanize her, he refused.The family would eventually survive a dangerous escape on a sinking boat to Hong Kong, and less than a year later make their way to the United States, where at 4 years old, Yip-Williams had a surgery that granted her some vision, if not enough to drive or read a menu without a magnifying glass.She would go on to defy her family’s expectations, eventually graduating from Harvard Law School, traveling the world solo and working at a prestigious law firm where she meets Josh, the love of her life. She becomes a mother and, soon after, a cancer patient, and soon after that, because of this unfortunate circumstance, a magnificent writer.During the five years from her diagnosis to her death, we enter her world in the most intimate way as she cycles through Elisabeth Kübler-Ross’s famous stages of grieving: denial, anger, bargaining, depression and acceptance. Describing the ways in which terminally ill patients cope with their own deaths, these stages weren’t meant to delineate a neat sequential progression but rather the various emotional states a dying person might visit, leave and visit again.Yip-Williams toggles between optimism and despair, between believing she’ll defy the statistics as she had so many times in her life — “odds are not prophecy” — and trying to persuade her husband to confront their harrowing reality. She makes bargains with God, just as she did as a young girl when, in exchange for her poor vision, she asked for a soul mate one day. (“God accepted my deal!”) She posts pictures of contented normalcy on Facebook — of meals cooked, a car purchased — but rages at her husband, healthy people, the universe and, silently, at the moms at a birthday party who ask how she’s doing. “Oh, fine. Just hanging in there,” she replies, while wanting to scream: “I didn’t deserve this! My children didn’t deserve this!” She frets about the “Slutty Second Wife” her husband will one day marry and the pain her daughters will experience in her absence. And, near the end, she oscillates between being game to try every possible treatment and accepting that nothing will keep her alive.“Paradoxes abound in life,” Yip-Williams writes in a heart-rending letter to her daughters; she asks us to confront these paradoxes with her head-on. One of the paradoxes of this book is that Yip-Williams writes with such vibrancy and electricity even as she is dying. She moves seamlessly from an incisive description of her mother as “the type of woman who sucks blame and guilt into herself through a giant straw,” to the gallows humor of “Nothing says ‘commitment to living’ quite like taking out a mortgage,” to the keen observation “Health is wasted on the healthy, and life is wasted on the living.” Unlike the woman in her support group who, after being given a terminal prognosis, defiantly declares, “Dying is not an option,” Yip-Williams prepares meticulously for her death while paying close attention to the life she will one day miss: “the simple ritual of loading and unloading the dishwasher. … making Costco runs. … watching TV with Josh. … taking my kids to school.”This memoir is so many things — a triumphant tale of a blind immigrant, a remarkable philosophical treatise and a call to arms to pay attention to the limited time we have on this earth. But at its core, it’s an exquisitely moving portrait of the daily stuff of life: family secrets and family ties, marriage and its limitlessness and limitations, wild and unbounded parental love and, ultimately, the graceful recognition of what we can’t — and can — control.“We control the effort we have put into living,” Yip-Williams writes, and the effort she has put into it is palpable. Of all the reasons we’re drawn to these memoirs, perhaps we read them most for this: They remind us to put in our own effort. It would be nearly impossible to read this book and not take her exhortation seriously.Lori Gottlieb writes the Dear Therapist column for The Atlantic. Her new book, “Maybe You Should Talk to Someone: A Therapist, Her Therapist, and Our Lives Revealed,” will be published in April.THE UNWINDING OF THE MIRACLE A Memoir of Life, Death, and Everything That Comes After By Julie Yip-Williams 315 pp. Random House. $27.AdvertisementSupported byBy Carl ZimmerThere’s never been a study like it before, and there probably never will be again.Starting in March 2015, astronaut Scott Kelly spent 340 days aboard the International Space Station. A team of scientists tracked his body’s responses to long-term spaceflight in painstaking detail. They simultaneously tracked his identical twin brother, Mark, on Earth.On Thursday, the scientists began publishing the huge trove of results from the so-called NASA Twins Study — 90 pages, all told, and that’s just the first installment. Here’s a guide to what they’ve found … so far.[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]Scientists tracked a huge range of measurements in the NASA Twins Study, from Mr. Kelly’s performance on cognition tests to levels of gene activity in his cells. Many of the molecular tests had never been carried out on astronauts before. The exams required Mr. Kelly to draw his own blood and to send fresh samples back to Earth in a Soyuz supply craft. Within 48 hours, researchers were analyzing the samples at NASA labs.In one test, researchers broke open Mr. Kelly’s white blood cells and searched for molecular signals from each of his genes to see whether they were active. The scientists identified thousands of genes that ramped up their pace. By looking at what those genes do, the team gleaned some clues as to why they became active in Mr. Kelly. Some are known to be triggered by stress, so it was no surprise to find that Mr. Kelly’s immune system also was on high alert.In another test, the researchers scrutinized molecular caps on the ends of Mr. Kelly’s chromosomes, called telomeres. Telomeres shorten with age, and stress can shorten them further. But Mr. Kelly’s telomeres actually grew longer on average during his time in space.Human biology is complicated and mysterious, even here on Earth. So documenting changes that Mr. Kelly experienced in space won’t automatically help scientists understand the causes.For example, why did his telomeres get longer? The Twins Study researchers are still trying to figure it out. It might have something to do with Mr. Kelly’s carefully designed, nutrient-rich diet — or perhaps the stress of space travel triggered stem cells to wake up and start multiplying.Another mystery lies in the very design of the experiment. NASA only examined a single astronaut in space, comparing his responses to his genetically identical brother. It’s hard to know if all astronauts would experience the same changes — or if some of those changes are flukes of his own experience and genetic makeup.Radiation can trigger certain mutations that may increase a person’s risk of developing cancer. And there’s more radiation in Earth orbit than on the surface of the planet. In his 340 days aboard the space station, Mr. Kelly was exposed to an estimated 48 times more radiation than he would have been subjected to had he spent a year on the planet.Scientists were able to observe the appearance of radiation-induced mutations in Mr. Kelly’s cells. The mutations were still present in Mr. Kelly months after his return, suggesting that he’ll carry them forward in his life, possibly causing a modest increase in his risk of cancer. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]So it’s a bit worrying that a long-term trip to Mars would expose astronauts to eight times more radiation than Mr. Kelly received.In addition, Mr. Kelly did worse on cognition tests even six months after landing, making more mistakes and responding more slowly. It’s possible that the physical demands of spaceflight were to blame, or that unconsciously his motivation had decreased. These unexpected declines led some researchers to worry about how ready astronauts would be for a challenging landing on Mars after many months in deep space.NASA understands that long-duration spaceflight could pose serious challenges to astronauts. By studying those challenges aboard the space station, the agency has been trying to quantify those risks. And on Earth, scientists have been investigating potential countermeasures.Take radiation. On the space station, Mr. Kelly’s cells switched on genes known to help repair DNA. It’s possible that his cells actually undid a lot of mutations right after they arose. Researchers are investigating a variety of compounds that might spur the cells of astronauts to repair even more damage.But such drugs might not be enough to handle, say, an unexpected solar flare, which would spray vast amounts of radiation. Some experts have speculated that spaceships would need a shielded room where astronauts could hide until flares were over. AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders viewed the speech as “rehashed rhetoric” and “showmanship” and doubted that it would lead to action by Congress.To the Editor:Re “Asking for Unity, Trump Renews Bid for Border Wall” (front page, Feb. 6):President Trump delivered a speech that was more showmanship than a serious discussion of the state of the nation and of his proposals to solve the problems that confront us. News outlets almost universally analyzed the speech from a political perspective. Commentators pondered the effect on the president’s base, women and other demographic groups. Much time was spent analyzing what drew applause and from whom.The current president and his recent predecessors have turned the State of the Union into a campaign rally featuring a laundry list of hot-button issues, repeating well-worn talking points. They introduce too many guests chosen to illustrate these talking points and to draw mandatory applause. They fail to use it for serious consideration of issues and for making realistic legislative proposals. And the length of these speeches taxes attention spans.If the presidents do not change the tenor of these speeches to make them more inspiring and meaningful, we should consider Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s suggestion that the State of the Union report be delivered in writing.William F. WerwaissNew YorkTo the Editor:President Trump’s call for $500 million to fight childhood cancer was greeted with deservedly loud applause. Does it not occur to anyone that he wants more than 10 times that amount for his wall? Here’s a deal we can all live with: $5.7 billion to fight childhood cancer, and $500 million for the wall. That way Mr. Trump can say he got money for the wall, and we can get our priorities straight in this country.John M. ImperialeHarvey Cedars, N.J.To the Editor:I cannot be the only person who found President Trump’s State of the Union address simply rehashed rhetoric. How many times do we have to hear his horror story version of what goes on at our southern border? Not surprisingly, the president’s speech lacked any mention of voting rights, sensible gun control or climate change. Perhaps an hour and 22 minutes wasn’t enough time.Stacey Abrams, however, in giving the Democratic response, addressed those missed issues and a lot more, and did it in under 15 minutes. As a bonus, she was passionate, wholly engaged and inspiring.Ms. Abrams, who lost a contentious battle for governor of Georgia and is not a member of Congress, was well chosen to give the Democratic response. She did an extraordinary job. Her belief in an America shaped by all of us together was in sharp contrast to the president’s self-glory-filled rhetoric. Patricia WellerEmmitsburg, Md.To the Editor:Speaker Nancy Pelosi showed her disrespectful attitude for all Americans to see Tuesday night. Could you imagine what the media would have done if a Republican had sat up there behind President Barack Obama making scowl faces and looking at papers all night? Wayne TaralsonSioux Falls, S.D.To the Editor:Re “Where’s the Unity, Mr. Trump?” (editorial, Feb. 6):The lofty goals put forth in President Trump’s State of the Union speech, even surrounded by anodyne patriotic themes and military reminiscences, will be going nowhere fast in terms of legislation and action under a president who has no idea how to work with Congress, especially a divided one.We must continue to express our disapproval of this administration but also need to forge ahead ourselves to achieve change. As your editorial said, “the wisest course for citizens interested in a stronger union is to focus on building it themselves.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Jennifer SteinhauerWASHINGTON — Three veterans killed themselves last week on Department of Veterans Affairs health care properties, barely a month after President Trump announced an aggressive task force to address the unremitting problem of veteran suicide.Mr. Trump’s executive order was a tacit acknowledgment of what the deaths rendered obvious: The department has not made a dent in stemming the approximately 20 suicide deaths every day among veterans, about one and a half times more often than those who have not served in the military, according to the most recent statistics available from the department.A 2015 measure that required officials to provide annual reviews of mental health care and suicide prevention programs has found that veterans often receive good mental health care at many Department of Veterans Affairs centers — but that has not decreased suicide rates. A relatively new program, known as the Mayor’s Challenge, that helps city and state governments reach more veterans through more public health programs via Veterans Affairs partnerships has shown some promise, but no data exists yet demonstrating suicide reductions.While the V.A. has been the public face of the issue, veterans are in many ways an amplification of the same factors that drive suicide in the broader American population: a fragmented health care system, a shortage of mental health resources, especially in rural areas, a lack of funding for suicide research and easy access to guns. All of these contribute to the drastically increased suicide rate among all Americans, which rose 33 percent from 1999 to 2017.High rates of homelessness, traumatic brain injuries, post-traumatic stress and a military culture that can be resistant to seeking help are all aggravating factors for veterans, whose rates of suicide have been the subject of numerous hearings on Capitol Hill.“We are not even at the Sputnik stage of understanding problems with mental health,” said Robert Wilkie, the secretary of veterans affairs. “I have said this is the No. 1 clinical priority that is made manifest by the president putting V.A. as the lead for this national task force.”Some programs to address veteran suicide are showing promise.A study of nine V.A. emergency rooms found 45 percent fewer suicidal behaviors among patients who received follow-up outreach after suicide attempts; as a result of this study, all V.A. medical centers have put into place the Safety Planning Intervention program.Since the department in 2017 began tracking suicides at Veterans Affairs facilities — among the most high-profile of veteran suicides — there have been more than 260 suicide attempts, 240 of which have been interrupted, department officials say.Yet about 70 percent of veterans do not regularly use the V.A., access to a federal department that may be viewed as central to suicide prevention.“The vast majority of veterans that die by suicide are not seeking services,” said Julie Cerel, a professor at the University of Kentucky and president of the American Association of Suicidology. “So the V.A.s are kind of at a loss of how to serve this group of people. Yet when they do end their lives, it becomes the responsibility of the V.A.,” in the viewpoint of critics, she said.Leadership turmoil — a consistent trait of the Trump administration — has complicated the V.A.’s attempt to address suicide. The agency’s director of its prevention office, Caitlin Thompson, resigned in 2017 after tangling with political appointees. According to a Government Accountability Office report last year, the office has essentially languished. Most notably, the office spent $57,000 of its $6.2 million media budget, and its presence on social media declined 77 percent from the levels of 2015, the report found. Lawmakers expressed outrage.Although Veterans Affairs officials blamed miscommunication at the time, Keita Franklin, the department’s new executive director of suicide prevention, said that the program had been delayed to come up with a more targeted marketing campaign, called #BeThere. It will try to “talk more specifically with targeted audiences,” she said, noting campaigns focused on 18- to 24-year-olds might focus on texting a friend in trouble while the over-60 crowd would be encouraged to have coffee. Some advertisements would be honed for women, for example, or for veterans in rural communities.Yet myriad political, structural and cultural impediments exist far beyond the administration’s walls.Many suicide experts believe that a lack of proper training in suicide prevention in the broader mental health field, hobbled by a lack of research into a matter that has stymied so many public health officials, is central to the issue.In 2017, the suicide rate in the United States reached 14 per 100,000 people, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; it is the nation’s 10th leading cause of death. Yet only $68 million is expected to be spent on suicide research this year, according to the National Institutes of Health. In comparison, breast cancer will receive about $709 million in research funding and $243 million is expected to be spent this year researching prostate cancer.“There has been tremendous research on breast cancer and AIDS, which lowered mortality rates on diseases we once thought once insurmountable,” Dr. Cerel said. “However, we have not had comparable research into suicide.”Guns are used in the majority of veteran suicides, in large part because gun ownership is high for that group. Last year, about 80 percent of suicides among veterans in Montana were by firearms, said Claire R. Oakley, the director of health promotion at RiverStone Health, a community provider attached to the Mayor’s Challenge in Billings, Mont., which has had among the highest rates of suicide in the nation.“Awareness is important but it does take funding and there is no capacity funding to do this work,” she said, noting that volunteers had filled many of the gaps.Proper storage techniques and training friends and family to know when to try to remove guns from vulnerable veterans are still lacking. Lawmakers who move to reduce gun access to suicidal veterans often face resistance.“By reducing access to firearms you see a drop right away,” said Jane Pearson, chairwoman of the Suicide Research Consortium at the National Institute of Mental Health. “We have to think of a way forward that is fair, that does not take away weapons unfairly.”Several states have enacted “extreme risk protection order” laws, which help law enforcement and family members temporarily remove guns from, or prohibit their purchases by, people who may be a threat to themselves.Perhaps most vexing is a military culture that emphasizes discipline and perseverance, which can backfire when a veteran is suicidal.“People who join the military have this sense of boot straps, ‘I can do it,’” Dr. Franklin said. “Then you become a vet and they say come in and get mental health care, and inwardly they don’t feel good doing it.”Mr. Trump’s executive order would also task multiple federal agencies — like the Agriculture Department in rural areas — to pitch in on veteran suicide prevention and to give grants to local governments to work with health care partners to better reach veterans.“There is no single cause of suicide,” Dr. Franklin said. “When we pull a thread, we see a complex situation with 25 factors playing. We can’t prevent suicide from where we sit in the V.A. by ourselves.”Allowing local governments to join with health care providers has also shown promise. The Massachusetts Coalition for Suicide Prevention, for instance, works through 10 regional coalitions to provide veterans with mental health services as well as things like entrepreneurship training.A major complication is reaching the veterans to start. Many use both V.A. and community providers; providers outside the system have varied forms of insurance coverage.“There are a lot of things the V.A. have done right,” Dr. Pearson said. “The issue is the challenge in our health care system with people jumping from one system to another.”The Mayor’s and Governor’s Challenges — which team governments with community health care providers to better reach and service veterans — show promise in connecting veterans to needed services inside and outside the Department of Veterans Affairs.Brent Arnspiger, the suicide prevention coordinator for the Michael E. DeBakey V.A. Medical Center in Houston, works with a local provider to send veterans who are not eligible for V.A. services to that provider’s facilities, and vice versa. “We have a warm handoff instead of just giving someone a phone number,” he said. “In the last three months, we have given 30 consults there,” he said of the health centers, “and they brought five to us.”Other states are eagerly embracing the same challenge. “The Commonwealth of Virginia has one of the largest populations of veterans, service members and their families in the nation,” said Carlos Hopkins, the Virginia secretary of Veterans and Defense Affairs, “which gives us a particularly keen awareness of the importance of tackling this national epidemic head on.”AdvertisementSupported bylettersDoctors and other health professionals discuss what we know and what don’t know.To the Editor:Re “The A.I. Diet,” by Eric Topol (Sunday Review, March 3):To write that “we know surprisingly little about the science of nutrition” is wrong. Most people do not need personalized diets. A whole foods, plant-based diet naturally low in fat and sugar has been scientifically proved to prevent and even reverse a wide variety of chronic diseases, including heart disease, Type 2 diabetes, hypertension and early-stage prostate cancer, especially when combined with moderate exercise, social support and stress management. Why? Because these illnesses share the same underlying biological mechanisms.Even if there are individual differences — how efficiently a person metabolizes dietary refined carbohydrates or fat — these don’t matter if a person isn’t eating too much of these. It’s why countries like China had such low rates of chronic diseases despite individual genetic variations until they started to eat like us, live like us and die like us.To say that artificial intelligence is needed to design a diet based on your microbiome is incorrect since a healthy diet can quickly change your microbiome in beneficial ways. Recommending foods like red meat and bratwurst, which the World Health Organization defined as potent carcinogens, shows how flawed A.I. can be.Dean OrnishKim Allan Williams Sr.Dr. Ornish is a clinical professor of medicine at the University of California San Francisco and co-author of “UnDo It!: How Simple Lifestyle Changes Can Reverse Most Chronic Diseases.” Dr. Williams is a former president of the American College of Cardiology.To the Editor:As a registered dietitian and a health educator who has been working in the field for more than 30 years, I have come to the conclusion that we know both so much and so little about nutrition as it relates to health. The bottom line is that diet’s effect on health is multifaceted, and blood glucose level is only a fraction of the important information for health outcome predictors. Individual variability is based on genes, environment, stress levels and so on. While I strongly believe that the future of dietary recommendations should be based on an individual’s needs, we are a long way from being able to do this in an accurate and comprehensive fashion.Elizabeth Schwebel WindWhite PlainsTo the Editor:I commend Joon Yun, David A. Kessler and Dan Glickman (“We Need Better Answers on Nutrition,” Op-Ed, nytimes.com, Feb. 28) for underscoring the role of diet in reducing preventable disease. But their focus on diet is narrow in a conversation about disease prevention. Diet is one of a collection of lifestyle factors, including physical inactivity, poor sleep, tobacco use, stress and non-adherence to medical regimens that account for 80 percent of chronic disease. These behaviors are driven by complex interactions between biological, environmental and social determinants of health. The broad focus on behavior, its determinants and disease describes the scope of the field of behavioral medicine. We have subsisted for 40 years on less than 3 percent of the National Institutes of Health budget. No substantive progress will be made in tackling preventable disease until we can understand and control the forces driving the public toward unhealthy lifestyles, including but not limited to diet.Sherry PagotoStorrs, Conn.The writer is president of the Society of Behavioral Medicine and a professor of allied health sciences at the University of Connecticut.To the Editor:Re “We Need Better Answers on Nutrition”:We need real food, preferably, food not grown with cancer-causing agents. It should be affordable. Instead, taxpayers subsidize the corn growers and other commodity crops. Corn gets turned into high-fructose corn syrup, which sweetens foodlike substances, which are cheaper because of those subsidies. The fake-food companies make fortunes off that addicting, cheap and convenient fake food because busy people working several minimum-wage jobs can’t afford real food and don’t have time to cook it anyway.We know what makes people healthy, but the political will to change public policy to get us to a healthy society isn’t there. It’s ironic that this article was written by a hedge fund manager, a former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration and a former agriculture secretary. AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — Boy or girl, Prince Harry and his American wife Meghan's first child will be bold and courageous, and Harry will be the more patient parent, according to a U.S. astrologer.If, as royal watchers expect, Meghan gives birth in late April or the first week of May, the baby will be born under the zodiac sign of Taurus, the bull.But some fiery astrology elements are also in play. Jupiter is in the midst of its transit into Sagittarius, while Venus will enter Aries next week, Los Angeles astrologer Charis Milona told Reuters."There's a great fiery line-up," said Milona after consulting her astrology charts. "We are looking at the child being born with a lot of extroverted, fiery, courageous, superstar sparkle components."Harry and Meghan, whose official titles are Duke and Duchess of Sussex, have not given an expected due date although Meghan told British well-wishers on a visit in January that she was six months pregnant. The couple said last week they had decided to keep their plans around the baby's arrival private.Milona, who also reads tarot cards at the Psychic Eye Book Shop in suburban Los Angeles, said that although Meghan was born in August under the zodiac sign Leo, her ascendant at the time of her birth was Cancer. Harry, a Virgo born in September, has Capricorn rising, she said."She is like the perfect mother, very nurturing. He is the perfect father (with) responsibility, very honorable," Milona said. "But what I noticed in the charts is that as parents, Prince Harry will actually have more patience than Meghan." Milona said that Meghan, a former actress on the U.S. television series "Suits" who married Harry in May 2018, would have made an impression whatever she did because she also has the sun in her own Leo zodiac sign."She shines a very bright light, especially having the sun in the first house of her self," she said. "So it wouldn't have mattered what she became in life. She would be noticed.AdvertisementSupported byFoods like instant noodles and soups, breakfast cereals and chicken nuggets were associated with an earlier death.By Nicholas BakalarEating highly processed foods could shorten your life, a new study suggests.The study, in JAMA Internal Medicine, tracked diet and health over eight years in more than 44,000 French men and women. Their average age was 58 at the start. About 29 percent of their energy intake was ultraprocessed foods. Such foods include instant noodles and soups, breakfast cereals, energy bars and drinks, chicken nuggets and many other ready-made meals and packaged snacks containing numerous ingredients and manufactured using industrial processes.There were 602 deaths over the course of the study, mostly from cancer and cardiovascular disease. Even after adjusting for many health, socioeconomic and behavioral characteristics, including scores on a scale of compliance with a healthy diet, the study found that for every 10 percent increase in ultraprocessed food consumption, there was a 14 percent increase in the risk of death.AdvertisementSupported byThe news about a second person who may be free of the infection is a distraction from the work we need to keep focusing on.By Gregg GonsalvesMr. Gonsalves is a longtime AIDS activist and a researcher.H.I.V. is not going away anytime soon. I’ve been living with it for more than 20 years and have seen the overhyped stories promising a cure around the corner pop up regularly, particularly around the time of big AIDS conferences. The news last week that a second person seems to have gone into long-term remission from H.I.V. after a stem cell transplant is a real scientific advance. But I fear the sensationalism with which this report was received could do more harm than good. It obscures the actual struggles we face in combating this epidemic.In this most recent case, cancer was an opportunity that offered the chance to cure two diseases at once. The individual, known as the “London patient,” received the transplant from a donor with a genetic mutation that conferred resistance to the H.I.V. infection. He was the second person ever to sustain long-term viral suppression in the absence of antiretroviral treatment. Timothy Ray Brown, also known as the “Berlin patient,” underwent a similar procedure 12 years ago, with the same remarkable results.But stem-cell transplants from these rare donors are unlikely to be used for the average H.I.V.-positive patient without cancer, because of the risks involved and the impracticality and costs of these procedures. In reality, a cure for H.I.V. remains a distant dream and the focus on the two “cured” patients is a distraction from the work that we still have to do, that’s more pragmatic and not as high-profile as news that someone is possibly free of the infection. In 1995, I was at the bedside of my cousin Carl, who was dying of AIDS. His siblings, my aunt and I tended to him during his illness. It was the most terrible period in my life. That year was also the year I also found out I was H.I.V.-positive. I was 32. My first laboratory results were not encouraging. My T-cell levels were quite low, which meant my disease was already progressing toward the danger zone where I would be at risk of infections like those that killed my cousin. Since 1981, this disease had been a death sentence for most people who were H.I.V.-positive, and I had few hopes for my own survival.But then a miracle happened. There was a great leap forward in AIDS treatment soon after Carl’s death. People desperately ill came back from the brink, and the new treatment began to offer a normal life span for others of us living with H.I.V. Within a few years, the death rate from H.I.V. plummeted in the United States and in other rich countries. By the end of the decade, a sweeping campaign began to reduce the prices of these new drugs and to get them to patients across the globe. This all came too late for Carl, but just in time for me and a generation of people living with the virus.It is one of the great honors of my life that I got to work with the activists who battled governments and drug companies to make this all happen. From the late ’80s, along with my colleagues in ACT UP and the Treatment Action Group, I fought for investments in AIDS research and drug development and changes in the way both were done. By 2000, I had moved on to pushing for access to medicines in poorer countries. However, I made the decision in 2008, in my mid-40s, to go back to college.Since then, I have been working on solving the fundamental problems facing the delivery of H.I.V. care and dealing with  the opioid epidemic and infectious diseases like hepatitis C that, along with H.I.V., can travel in its wake. While we should continue to dream big and hope for a cure, my own history has shown that a few months in the here and now can make the difference between life and death. As researchers and activists, we have to urgently focus on what works, on overcoming barriers to scale up H.I.V. treatment and prevention, which will need both scientific and political solutions.The recent study may be an important step in getting us a cure for all. But, there is so much more to do to ensure that the promise of discoveries now more than 20 years old — these powerful AIDS drugs — become a reality for millions today who will perish, like my cousin Carl, without them.Gregg Gonsalves is an assistant professor at the Yale School of Public Health.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — Boy or girl, Prince Harry and his American wife Meghan's first child will be bold and courageous, and Harry will be the more patient parent, according to a U.S. astrologer.If, as royal watchers expect, Meghan gives birth in late April or the first week of May, the baby will be born under the zodiac sign of Taurus, the bull.But some fiery astrology elements are also in play. Jupiter is in the midst of its transit into Sagittarius, while Venus will enter Aries next week, Los Angeles astrologer Charis Milona told Reuters."There's a great fiery line-up," said Milona after consulting her astrology charts. "We are looking at the child being born with a lot of extroverted, fiery, courageous, superstar sparkle components."Harry and Meghan, whose official titles are Duke and Duchess of Sussex, have not given an expected due date although Meghan told British well-wishers on a visit in January that she was six months pregnant. The couple said last week they had decided to keep their plans around the baby's arrival private. [nL9N1ZO00R]Milona, who also reads tarot cards at the Psychic Eye Book Shop in suburban Los Angeles, said that although Meghan was born in August under the zodiac sign Leo, her ascendant at the time of her birth was Cancer. Harry, a Virgo born in September, has Capricorn rising, she said."She is like the perfect mother, very nurturing. He is the perfect father (with) responsibility, very honorable," Milona said. "But what I noticed in the charts is that as parents, Prince Harry will actually have more patience than Meghan." Milona said that Meghan, a former actress on the U.S. television series "Suits" who married Harry in May 2018, would have made an impression whatever she did because she also has the sun in her own Leo zodiac sign."She shines a very bright light, especially having the sun in the first house of her self," she said. "So it wouldn't have mattered what she became in life. She would be noticed.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Glenn Kenny“The Juniper Tree,” a 1990 film made in Iceland, received spotty distribution in the United States after competing in the Sundance Film Festival. It’s best remembered for featuring the film acting debut of the art-pop star Björk (billed here by her full name, Björk Guðmundsdóttir).In watching a newly restored version, I was struck not only by Björk’s distinctive charisma at 24 years old but also by the talent of the film’s writer, director and editor, Nietzchka Keene. This was Keene’s first feature, and she would die of pancreatic cancer in 2004 with just a couple of other directing credits to her name.This film is adapted from a tale by the Brothers Grimm — one of the gnarly unexpurgated ones, not the bowdlerized kind long served to American kids. Two sisters, Katla (Bryndis Petra Bragadóttir) and the younger Margit (Björk), find themselves homeless after their mother is burned as a witch. They wander, and in an environment far-flung from their former dwellings, Katla enchants a young widower, Johann. The sisters set up in his home, and while the childlike Margit gets along well with Johann’s young son Jonas, the kid has real problems with Katla. Especially after he walks into a room and catches her practicing some sorcery.The tension of the situation resolves itself in a shocking way, as Margit’s burgeoning powers of “vision” prove useless in affecting fate. Shot in powerfully stark black and white, the movie has a style that doesn’t partake of the anticipated influences — you might expect resonances of Ingmar Bergman or Carl Dreyer, but “The Juniper Tree,” which was shot in English, has a voice all its own. This restoration was backed in part by the University of Wisconsin, where Keene taught until her death at 52. It’s a fitting tribute to a filmmaker gone far too soon.Movie data powered by IMDb.comNot rated. Running time: 1 hour 18 minutes.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirHelen Miller, who took care of the sick and the elderly for nearly 40 years in Chicago while championing her fellow home care workers, fighting for greater pay and benefits as a union leader and speaking eloquently about the dignity of their work, died on March 5 in Louisville, Miss., where she was born. She was 82.Her nephew Tony Berry said the cause was complications of stomach cancer. She had been in hospice care at home.Mrs. Miller believed that helping the sick, elderly and disabled was a critical service that the state of Illinois undervalued by paying thousands of workers poverty-level wages and offering no benefits.“I took care of some people for 10 or 15 years, trying to give them to same kind of care I would give my own mother,” she said in a document published in 2003 by the Service Employees International Union when Mrs. Miller was president of Local 880 in Illinois. “And it affects you. When you lose them it hurts the same as if they were a family member.”Her activism began in earnest in the 1980s when she and her fellow workers were still categorized as independent contractors; while their local was affiliated with the S.E.I.U., it did not have the fundamental right of unions to collectively bargain on behalf of its members. That would not come for many years — one of the many battles Mrs. Miller helped to lead.One of Local 880’s earliest fights was to bring all of its workers’ pay up to the prevailing minimum wage of $3.35 an hour; some of their time was deemed by the state as “supervisory pay,” which brought them only $1 an hour. In 1987, when she was a vice president of the local, Mrs. Miller testified emotionally to the Illinois General Assembly in Springfield, asking lawmakers to consider how poorly she and her fellow workers were paid.“It was the first time she had ever testified, and she was really intimidated,” Keith Kelleher, a top organizer during Mrs. Miller’s time at Local 880, recalled in a telephone interview. “She told me, ‘I saw all those fancy people in their fancy suits and dresses and I was just a home-care worker.’ But she told them, ‘Don’t listen with your heads, listen with your hearts. Even if it is legal to pay us $1 an hour, we deserve a living wage.’ ”The legislature soon after raised the workers’ pay to $3.50 an hour (the equivalent of $7.65 today) and eliminated the $1 supervisory pay.Helen Ruth Ashford was born on May 26, 1936, to Buster and Clara Ashford, who managed their farm. Helen attended an all-black high school in segregated Louisville, then moved to Chicago after graduating, finding jobs in industrial laundries and marrying Collin Miller, a construction worker. After about 15 years of laundry work, she became a home-care worker.Mrs. Miller continued to work with her home-care clients, taking buses to care for them, even as she became increasingly active in the union.She organized home care workers in other cities and led rallies and protests in Springfield, Ill., and Chicago. Sometimes, she led union members in the gospel song “Victory Is Mine,” other times declaring that they were like Moses telling the Pharaoh, “Let my people go,” Mr. Kelleher recalled.While speaking in 1995 at a White House Conference on Aging, she told the delegates about the home-care workers’ ongoing struggle for pay and respect.“I love my job,” she said. “But please listen to me. We are never listened to. We make minimum wage without a single benefit, and yet we are the people who keep your mother, your father, your sisters, brothers, uncles and aunts out of nursing homes.”She added: “We aren’t the greedy. We are the needy.”After serving as the local’s treasurer and vice president, she was elected its president in 1999, serving for eight years until her retirement.She also helped voter registration drives in the 1990s directed by Project Vote, which was led by Barack Obama before he was elected an Illinois state senator.The union’s hard work paid off. Wages rose, fitfully, and in 2003, Illinois passed legislation that allowed the local to bargain collectively for its members. That right led home-care workers to negotiate for health insurance and take advantage of a state-funded education and training program that is now named for Mrs. Miller.She is survived by a sister, Johnnie Wells, and a brother, Hayward Ashford.AdvertisementSupported byQ&APotassium iodide offers limited protection to those exposed to a Chernobyl-type disaster. By C. Claiborne RayA. There is no reason to assume that the pills have spoiled or deteriorated, unless they were improperly stored. Like all over-the-counter drugs, potassium iodide pills are labeled with an expiration date, usually five or six years after manufacture. But their components are very stable, according to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and it is safe to take them after the expiration date. Potassium iodide protects one organ from one kind of radioactive exposure. It prevents the thyroid gland from taking up radioactive forms of iodine that may be released in the event of a Chernobyl-type accident. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Ingesting or breathing radioactive iodine presents serious long-term risks, including thyroid cancer. Potassium iodide shields the thyroid by saturating it with so much iodine that it can absorb no more. Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

FEB. 14, 2019

Using statistical modeling, researchers found that strenuous activity — like running or vigorous cycling, tennis or squash — may actually help to prevent depression. Benefits started at about this many minutes per day:15 minutes30 minutes45 minutesAn hourTrue or false? In winter, you can get much of the vitamin D your body needs by standing in front of a sunny window.TrueFalseThis psychological trait in 6-year-old boys was the greatest predictor of diminished earnings potential three decades later: HyperactivityInattentionDefiant behaviorAggressionSouth Asians living in the United States have a particularly high rate of death from this illness, and scientists aren't sure why:Alzheimer's diseaseStomach cancerDiabetesHeart diseaseAn F.D.A. panel recommended approval of this popular club drug as a treatment for depression:GHB (liquid X)Ketamine (special K)MDMA (ecstasy, Molly)Rohypnol (roofies)This condition causes an often painful curvature of the penis. A new drug called Xiaflex may help. Depuytren's contracturePeyronie's diseasePriapismBalanitisDr. John Gunderson died this week at age 76. He is perhaps best known for helping to establish this psychiatric diagnosis, characterized by fears of abandonment, emotional volatility and suicide attempts:Bipolar 1 disorderBipolar 2 disorderAdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWARSAW — Poland's biggest opposition front launched its campaign for next month's European Parliament election on Saturday by warning that the ruling eurosceptic PiS party could eventually lead the country out of the EU.Poles overwhelming support remaining in the bloc, and the Law and Justice party (PiS) has never called for Poland to leave. But opposition leaders say the party's fierce anti-EU rhetoric and a series of disputes with Brussels bring "Polexit" a step nearer.Seeking to appeal to voters' pro-European sentiment, leaders of the opposition European Coalition (KE) said May's European election poses a stark choice about the nation's future."There's a great choice ahead: either strong, rich, democratic Poland in a strong Europe, or what we see today -- party state, on its way to leave the EU," said Grzegorz Schetyna, head of the centrist Civic Platform (PO), which is part of the multi-party KE grouping."We're facing elections to the European Parliament that are the most important elections since 1989. Now even more is at stake," he told a KE convention on Saturday, referring to the election 30 years ago that marked the return of democracy.If Poland was to hold a referendum similar to Britain's Brexit ballot, 88 percent of Poles would vote against leaving the bloc, according to an opinion poll published this month by IBSP.A voter survey by the IBRiS pollsters gave PiS support of 39 percent in the European elections, ahead of the KE on 36.5 percent.The ruling party, which has governed Poland since 2015, has retained solid support among voters despite a series of corruption scandals and opposition criticism that its legal and media reforms are a thinly veiled power grab.Much of the party's appeal among lower-income Poles is linked to targeted welfare spending, political analysts say.At Saturday's campaign launch, Schetyna promised pay rises for teachers and extra financial support for young workers.AdvertisementSupported byNaomi Tanya Levin and Avraham Shneur Zalman Cohn are to be married Feb. 24 at Crystal Plaza, an events space in Livingston, N.J. Rabbi Naftali Citron is to officiate.The bride, 35, will be taking her husband’s name. Until 2018, she was a software developer at Yext, an online business-management technology company in New York. She ran in the 2018 election as the Republican candidate in New York’s 10th Congressional District. She is on the board of Endowment for Middle East Truth, a pro-Israeli nonprofit group in Washington informing legislators and policy decisions on national security and the Middle East. She is also a vice president on the board of the Manhattan Republican Party. She graduated from Boston University with a dual bachelor’s degree in computer science and biology.Ms. Levin is a daughter of Larissa V. Levin and Leonid A. Levin of Newton, Mass. Her father is a computer science professor at Boston University. He is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in Cambridge, Mass. Until 1992, her mother was a biochemist focusing on cancer research at the University of Massachusetts Medical School in Worcester.The groom, 31, who is known as Abe, is an intellectual property lawyer at the Cohn Legal Group in New York, a division of Howard M. Cohn & Associates in Cleveland, in which his father, Howard M. Cohn, a patent lawyer, is the managing partner. The groom graduated cum laude from the University of Maryland and received a law degree from Yeshiva University.AdvertisementSupported byBy Rick GladstoneThe mystery over the incarceration of a Navy veteran in Iran last July deepened on Friday, when an Iranian prosecutor said that the case had been based on an “individual plaintiff” and that the prisoner might face security-related charges.The veteran, Michael R. White of Imperial Beach, Calif., is the first American to be imprisoned in Iran since the Trump administration took office two years ago.His arrest raised the number of American prisoners in Iran to at least four, and has added an irritant to the already poor relations between the countries.The prosecutor, Gholamali Sadeqi, in the northeast Iranian city of Mashhad, was quoted in a brief report by Iran’s Mehr news agency as saying “there is an individual plaintiff in the case,” but he did not provide details.The Persian-language Mehr report, as translated by the BBC, also quoted the prosecutor as saying that Mr. White was under investigation on other unspecified security charges and that he remained imprisoned in Mashhad, where he was taken into custody six months ago.Mr. White, who just turned 47, is a 13-year Navy veteran who had a girlfriend in Iran and had visited the country several times to see her, according to his mother, Joanne White.Archived photographs from Mr. White’s discontinued Instagram account show him and a dark-haired woman in a head scarf. The identity of the woman and other details about her remain unclear.News of Mr. White’s arrest first emerged on Jan. 7, when his mother confirmed it in a telephone interview with The New York Times. She said officials at the State Department had informed her that he was imprisoned and that they were working to ensure he was seen by diplomats from Switzerland, which looks after American interests in Iran.A spokesman for the White family, Jonathan Franks, said Friday that there had been no communication with Mr. White in Iran and it remained unclear if he had been seen by the Swiss.But Mr. Franks also said that Mr. White’s mother had spoken with Iranians who had identified themselves as Mr. White’s former cellmates, and that she now worried about the health of her son, a former cancer patient.“Mrs. White, on the basis of firsthand evidence provided to her by Iranian nationals who were incarcerated with Michael, believes his life-threatening cancer has recurred,” the spokesman said in a statement. “She respectfully calls on the regime to release him immediately so he may get the care he needs.”Mr. White’s incarceration came against the backdrop of a sharp escalation in pressure on Iran by Mr. Trump, who has abandoned the Iranian nuclear agreement, reimposed severe sanctions and vowed to choke off most Iranian oil exports, the country’s main source of income.The White family’s spokesman said any suggestion that Mr. White might have engaged in espionage or sedition in Iran was false.“Michael enjoyed his many visits to Iran to visit his girlfriend and has great respect for the Iranian people,” he said. “To be clear, Michael is not now, nor has he ever been a spy and we reject the notion he committed some sort of crime against the state.”There has been no indication from Iran that any of the other Americans known to be imprisoned there will be released anytime soon.On Thursday, Jared Genser, an American lawyer in Washington for two of the prisoners, Baquer and Siamak Namazi, said Iran’s Supreme Court had recently rejected the appeals of their 10-year prison sentences on charges of having collaborated with the United States.AdvertisementSupported byForty-six years after Roe, the two camps increasingly disagree on basic facts about abortion — and who has the authority to determine them.By Mary ZieglerMs. Ziegler is a law professor.It was perhaps, at first glance, an unusual feature of the 2019 March for Life that it downplayed what many have come to think of as the central claim of the anti-abortion movement: that the unborn have a constitutional right to life.Instead, march organizers focused on proclaiming that science was on their side. They circulated material on “when human life begins,” whether abortions are ever medically necessary and when fetal life becomes viable. They praised legal restrictions based on what science supposedly says about fetal pain.In return, abortion-rights advocates, citing studies from the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the University of California, San Francisco, fired back that the March for Life peddles “junk science” and that its positions “fly in the face of evidence.”This year’s skirmish wasn’t actually unusual, however. Rather, it was revealing of a larger shift in the terms of the abortion debate. Over the past few decades, the abortion wars have become as much a fight about science and medicine as they are about the law and the Constitution.It wasn’t always this way. Before Roe v. Wade, those on both sides of the issue typically framed their arguments in constitutional terms, anticipating a showdown in the courts. And in the immediate aftermath of the decision, 46 years ago today, most still viewed abortion as a constitutional fight. Abortion foes pushed for an amendment banning the procedure and restoring what they saw as a fundamental right to life; abortion-rights supporters felt secure in the court’s conclusion that the 14th Amendment’s right to privacy encompassed a right to choose.The introduction of scientific claims to the debate came slowly at first. In the 1970s, anti-abortion activists wanted a way to keep abortion rates down while the campaign for constitutional change raged on. So they turned to contested science to argue for laws dictating how and when doctors performed abortions. Some insisted that fetal viability came earlier than the 24- to 28-week time frame set in Roe. Others claimed that abortion caused “severe emotional disturbances,” “sterility and miscarriage, and prematurity in subsequent pregnancies.” In the decade that followed Roe, dozens of laws restricting abortion were passed each year.By the 1980s, abortion foes had conceded that a constitutional amendment would not pass in the foreseeable future. Even with allies controlling Congress and the White House, there simply weren’t enough votes for an amendment banning all abortions outright, and absolutists saw any other form of constitutional change as cowardly and counterproductive.And so anti-abortion groups decided that their best bet would be passing yet more restrictions on when, where and how doctors performed abortions and persuading the court to uphold them. With that, arguments over what science had to say about the procedure took on even more importance. The 1980s saw the advent of arguments that stressed fetal pain — an issue on which there is very little consensus — and a continuing push to redefine fetal viability.While accusing opponents of peddling sham science, abortion-rights supporters insisted that the legality of the procedure should turn on its benefits for women seeking a more equal role in society. In 1992, in Planned Parenthood v. Casey, the court agreed, declining an invitation to overturn Roe partly because “the ability of women to participate equally in the economic and social life of the nation has been facilitated by their ability to control their reproductive lives.”But Casey inadvertently fueled a further rush toward science and medicine as the grounds on which the fight over abortion would be staged. Anti-abortion groups took away from Casey that they might successfully undercut abortion rights if they could show that the procedure harmed women. Starting in the 1990s, abortion foes increasingly stressed arguments that abortion caused breast cancer and damaged women’s psyches. In seeking to ban a specific procedure they labeled “partial-birth abortion,” anti-abortion leaders contended that the procedure was medically unnecessary for the women involved.Abortion-rights supporters have tried time and again to debunk these ideas, pointing to the conclusions drawn by nonpartisan, well-established groups like the National Cancer Institute, the American Cancer Society and the American Psychological Association. But support from elite scientific organizations has only intensified the conflict. Abortion foes have founded expert groups of their own and insist that the medical establishment puts political correctness ahead of the truth.More recent Supreme Court decisions have only reinforced the importance of science as contested ground. In 2007, in Gonzales v. Carhart, the court reasoned that lawmakers had more latitude to restrict abortion when experts disagreed about a scientific question, such as the need for a specific abortion procedure. Nine years later, in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt, the court held that judges had to measure both the benefits and the burdens of an abortion law, jump-starting efforts on both sides to gather scientific evidence.Today, with the fate of Roe uncertain, a focus on science and medical claims has pushed the two sides of the abortion conflict farther apart. Neither movement has changed its views about the Constitution. But now, abortion-rights and anti-abortion activists disagree on the basic facts about abortion — and who has the scientific authority to determine them.The role of science in the abortion debate also suggests that overturning Roe — or even removing abortion from constitutional law — will do nothing to de-escalate the conflict. For decades, commentators across the ideological spectrum have argued that the Supreme Court Supreme Court polarized the conflict by treating abortion as a constitutional right rather than a negotiable policy issue. By extension, some have speculated that the breach between the two sides could heal if each state could weigh policy arguments and scientific evidence. But in many instances, the debate has already centered on policy and science, and the divide between those on either side is as bad as it has ever been. Science will not solve the abortion wars, and neither will reversing Roe.AdvertisementSupported byBy Salman MasoodISLAMABAD, Pakistan — Prime Minister Imran Khan of Pakistan has introduced an ambitious poverty alleviation plan that he says would help the country’s poorest gain better access to health care, education, and employment.Mr. Khan said his government would allocate 80 billion rupees — more than half a billion dollars — for an anti-poverty plan known as “Ehsas,” or Empathy, and raise it to 120 billion rupees by 2021.“No Pakistani government has spent so much money on alleviating poverty in the past,” Mr. Khan said Wednesday during a ceremony in Islamabad, the capital. “The government has launched a war against poverty.”Pakistan has an estimated population of 207.2 million people, almost a quarter of whom live below the poverty line, according to the World Bank.Fighting poverty was a central issue of his campaign when he won the general elections in July. But implementing that promise — and particularly the Ehsas plan, which is at its heart the establishment of a welfare state — will be exceptionally difficult, given the country’s economic crisis.Pakistan is facing a worsening balance-of-payments crisis and is in talks with the International Monetary Fund for a bailout package. Pakistan has also looked for financial support from China, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.The I.M.F. has said that Pakistan has low international reserves and a high fiscal and current account deficit. Talks between Pakistan and the I.M.F. have continued for months and are now at the final stages, officials said.Despite the challenges, Mr. Khan insisted that the welfare program should proceed. “I know the economic conditions are difficult,” Mr. Khan said.The program would include extensive aid so that the poor could afford health care, and would include easier loan terms for families seeking to build or buy homes. The plan also includes several economic empowerment measures for women, including savings accounts and mobile phones for an estimated 5.7 million poor women.Mr. Khan has proposed a constitutional amendment that would make basic necessities such as food, housing, education and health care a fundamental right. The amendment would require the approval of Parliament.Analysts were skeptical that much of the program could be enacted. But many praised Mr. Khan for at least focusing national attention on the country’s poverty.“In his first address to the nation, Mr. Khan surprised many critics when he spoke at length about nutrition, child protection, education and maternal and neonatal health,” said Mosharraf Zaidi, a public policy analyst. “In launching the Ehsas anti-poverty plan, he has given concrete shape to his longstanding human development ambitions.”“With an unprecedented shortfall in tax collection and a major new incoming I.M.F. program, the freedom to spend public funds on the poor will likely be even more curtailed,” Mr. Zaidi added. “How P.M. Khan manages to balance between his pro-poor instincts and the shrinking wallet available to him will be crucial to the initial success of Ehsas.”Decades before entering to office, Mr. Khan, a former cricket star who made philanthropy a central part of his public appeal, led an effort to finance and build the country’s first dedicated cancer hospital, which treats poor patients for free. In his speech on Wednesday, he pointed out that at the time of its inception, no one thought the hospital campaign could work.“If I had gone by logic, I would never have been able to complete this project,” he said, referring to the cancer hospital.“When a nation decides to help its poor, God finds ways for it to succeed. The real thing is to have honest intentions,” Mr. Khan said. “It is my belief that, God willing, one day you will see that we would be successful in eradicating poverty.”“I also want to give a modern day example of China,” Mr. Khan added. “Who would have thought 30 years ago that a country could pull 700 million people out of poverty? It has never happened in the world’s history.”During a visit to China last year, Mr. Khan had said that he was keen to emulate the Chinese example of development and was learning from its experiences.In announcing his anti-poverty plan, Mr. Khan said that by December the government would complete a new nationwide poverty survey that would help identify the most vulnerable and disadvantaged. He has announced the formation of a new ministry that would bring different social welfare programs under one umbrella.For women, who face extensive religious, social and economic barriers to advancement in Pakistan, Mr. Khan also envisioned a campaign to provide goats and hens to rural women to help with both food security and personal income sources. The plan also provides financial support to those widows who have no sources of income.Mr. Khan also said 50 percent of women would receive scholarships and education vouchers.The government, he said, “will ensure that the invisible but hard work of rural women is recognized, that they have equal wages, and that domestic work is covered under legislation.”The plan also includes a partnership with aid groups to support street children, transgender people and daily-wage workers. And it would feature new availability for cash grants and pensions, and higher government spending on education and health care.“There isn’t a single formula to eradicate poverty,” Mr. Khan said. “Many steps have to be taken.”AdvertisementSupported byIn an effort to reduce opioid addiction, doctors are cutting back on pain medication — and sometimes leaving patients to suffer.By Maia SzalavitzMs. Szalavitz is the author of “Unbroken Brain: A Revolutionary New Way of Understanding Addiction.”Katie Tulley suffers from an incurable bladder disorder so painful that it feels “like tearing skin off your arm and pouring acid on it, 24/7,” she said. On scans, the organ looks like an open sore.Ms. Tulley, a 37-year-old Louisianan who used to work with autistic children, manages her pain with a fentanyl patch. The opioid gives her a few precious hours out of bed to help her parents, do online volunteer work and occasionally leave home for something other than a medical visit. “I don’t get a euphoric feeling,” she said, noting that she has lowered her dose to avoid feeling woozy and impaired.Now, because of legal concerns about overdose risk, her doctors have considered stopping her medication, even though she has never misused it. And so, when she recently discovered a suspicious lump in her belly, she found herself hoping it was cancer. “I shouldn’t ‘want’ cancer,” she said. “But at this point it’s the only way to be treated” for her pain.As many as 18 million patients rely on opioids to treat long-term pain that is intractable but not necessarily associated with terminal illness. In 2016, seeking to curb opioid misuse, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention introduced guidelines outlining a maximum safe dosage and strongly urging doctors to avoid prescribing for chronic pain unless death is imminent. The guidelines were supposed to be voluntary and apply only to chronic pain patients seeing general practitioners. Instead, they have been widely seen by doctors as mandatory.As a result, thousands of pain medication recipients have had their doses reduced or eliminated. But this attempt to save people from addiction is leaving many patients in perpetual pain — and thus inadvertently ruining, or even ending, lives.A Veterans Health Administration study found alarming rates of suicidal acts “following discontinuation of opioid therapy.” Human Rights Watch recently released a report detailing the struggles of chronic pain patients in the United States to find relief and care as a result of government efforts to reduce prescriptions.Prescribing outside the C.D.C. guidelines can lead to scrutiny by medical boards and even the Drug Enforcement Administration — and the result has been that many doctors have either quit prescribing entirely or tapered patients’ doses to fit the guidelines. According to a 2017 Boston Globe survey, nearly 70 percent of family and internal medicine doctors nationwide reported having reduced their prescribing in the previous two years — and nearly 10 percent reported stopping prescribing pain medication entirely. The State of Oregon is considering a proposal that would require that all Medicaid patients with certain forms of chronic pain be forced off opioids. But not all patients can manage without opioids and some — whether because of metabolic or genetic differences, or tolerance from long-term use — will always need higher doses than the C.D.C. recommends.Jay Lawrence, a former truck driver, is a case in point. When his doctor refused to continue his medication in early 2017 — even though he had severe pain from spinal cord injuries and was not addicted — he told his wife that he’d had enough. In a park where they’d recently renewed their wedding vows, he fatally shot himself in the chest while she held his hand.By working to reduce prescribing, government regulators, insurers, law enforcement officials, legislators and other policymakers have ignored the genuine dangers of leaving people in agony, including suicide and increased risk for heart attacks and strokes. And with the Trump administration having pledged to cut the manufacturing of opioids by pharmaceutical companies by an additional 10 percent, even more patients are at risk.To be sure, opioids have been overprescribed. A Johns Hopkins review of six studies found that over two-thirds of patients reported having unused pills. And for many people, the pain killers either aren’t effective or do more harm than good. But while medical opioid use has fallen by nearly one-third since peaking around 2011 — and deaths associated with prescription opioids have stabilized — overall opioid overdose fatalities have recently hit a high as more potent, illegally manufactured opioids hit the streets.Indeed, as prescribing fell, deaths connected to illicit opioids skyrocketed. From 2010 to 2016, heroin overdose mortality rose by nearly 500 percent — and mortality associated with illegally manufactured fentanyl jumped 600 percent from 2013 to 2016 alone.Officials with the Centers for Disease Control admit that they do not specifically track suicides by patients who have lost medical access to pain relievers, so we don’t really know how many people are killing themselves because they can’t live with their pain.But there is much anecdotal evidence that chronic pain drives patients to suicidal thoughts. Karen King, for example, says she has had four hospitalizations because of suicidal thoughts or attempts in the past year alone. She suffers chronic pain from a broken neck. When her doctor cut her medication, she had to close the quilt store she owned in Massachusetts. Without medication, she couldn’t stand or carry bolts of fabric. “It broke my heart,” she said.Jeff Geurin is another example. He was a cryptologic linguist in the Air Force when he was wounded in a parachute jump accident. He retrained as a surgical technician after a medical discharge from the military in 2008. Last year, his doctor ceased his medication, leaving him with such intense back pain that he had “plans made” for suicide, before he found a new doctor.In the rush to reduce opioid misuse, it is easy to forget that millions of people have safely taken these drugs for years. Data show that less than 8 percent of chronic pain patients become addicted, according to a study that has the director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse as a co-writer. And overwhelmingly, prescription opioid addiction doesn’t begin with a doctor’s prescription: About 80 percent of people who start misusing these drugs are getting them from family, friends and other people’s medicine cabinets — not from legitimate pain treatment. It is true that long-term, high-dose opioid use is associated with increased overdose risk. But proponents for cutting pain medication use often fail to recognize that simply reducing or ending pain pill prescriptions can be risky, too.A 2017 study of about 500 veterans who were forced to taper found that 9 percent became suicidal and 2 percent actually acted on those thoughts. Other research recently presented at a major health services conference showed that 30 percent of those who were made to taper completely were dead within six months, though the data didn’t show the cause of death.Dr. Stefan Kertesz, a professor of medicine at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, has publicly noted that there is no compelling body of evidence showing that forced tapering is consistently helpful, and that it is clearly associated with harm in some cases.Even people with terminal cancer can be affected. Dr. Barbara McAneny, the president of the American Medical Association, recently described a close call in one of her own patients. He had prostate cancer that infiltrated his bones — and attempted suicide after being turned away at the pharmacy because his dose was outside the guidelines.After years of complacency, doctors are finally starting to fight back. Dr. McAneny cited her experience to support a resolution, subsequently passed by the medical association, that warns against “misapplication” of the guidelines. The group stresses that dose alone is not a reason for insurers or pharmacists to block access — and that doctors with good clinical reasons for variance should not be investigated or prosecuted.A parallel effort by a group of over 300 medical professionals, co-led by Dr. Kertesz and signed on to by three former United States drug czars, calls on the C.D.C. to make a “bold clarification” by stating that its guidelines do not require that chronic pain patients who are dependent on opioids have their dosages tapered. Another large group of physicians — including some strong supporters of the guidelines as written — recently published a journal article calling involuntary tapers a “large-scale humanitarian issue” and demanding that they be prohibited or at least minimized.Paradoxically, there is a growing medical consensus that patients who are addicted to their pain pills shouldn’t be forced to taper their dosages. The safest treatment for opioid addiction is maintenance with an appropriate opioid: For addiction, the opioids methadone and buprenorphine are the only treatments proved to cut the death rate from overdose by 50 percent or more.“We have less mercy for people who have chronic pain and are on chronic opioids than we do for somebody who’s using heroin in the streets right now,” said Dr. Kertesz. Both groups deserve more compassion, including a safe legal harbor for high-dose prescribing for patients who truly need it — as well as for their doctors. Attempting to reduce overdose risk by raising the odds of suicide is both cruel and senseless.AdvertisementSupported byLove, political change, a pennant: Readers respond with their hopes for 2019, for both themselves and for the world.By Rachel L. Harris and Lisa TarchakMs. Harris and Ms. Tarchak are senior editorial assistants.How do you define hope — a state of mind, a plan for action? Or simply the act of being grateful? We asked readers to define what hope means to them, and to share their dreams and aspirations for 2019. Many wrote of the mending of political and social divides, some the mending of their own families. There were longings for deeper love and declarations to do good. A few lamented that they saw no hope in sight, for their communities or for themselves.But for Jacqueline Haley, a reader from Weymouth, Mass., hope is being able to dwell in the present. “Having advanced stage recurrent cancer is indeed my gift,” she wrote. “Never has the world looked so perfectly designed or more capable of righting itself, despite the human folly that interrupts and disrupts. My hope for 2019 is that myself and everyone else can relish simply being here now.”More responses from our readers are below, edited for clarity and length.My deeply personal hope is for the ability to act out of love, even in very trying and triggering times. To find that golden, shiny space in a personal relationship and to live there long enough to feel the heart crack open and experience transcendent freedom and a whole new, deeper way of seeing the other person. My universal hope is that we are all struck by such awareness. What a world that would be! — Dawn Montanye, Ithaca, N.Y.I have been married to a man for almost 40 years. He’s a good man, but he’s not my soul mate. I have wanted to leave him several times. I never did, for the usual reasons: kids, economics, laziness, fear of the unknown. We went on, the kids grew up, and we just settled in. About six years ago, he was diagnosed with dementia. In October 2018, he was diagnosed with stage four lung cancer. I thought I knew everything about this man but he has surprised me and, moreover, given me a lesson in love. He used to be full of anxieties and anger. Now he has distilled himself down to pure love. It’s who he is and how his days go. He tells us how much he loves us, he tells people he’s supposed to know but has forgotten how much he loves them. It’s not just words, it’s action; in his eyes, his face, his gestures. He lights up at your presence; he kisses your hand; he tells you how wonderful you look. He dispenses love from a bottomless well. There is no filter, no bargaining for affection. And I stand here, in awe. — Mary Carroll, Copake, N.Y.We lost our 6-year old daughter, Nina, to cancer last year. She was funny, bright, and the kindest soul I have ever known. My own life has seemed to stretch out endlessly and pointlessly in front of me while my radiant child lies buried in the ground. To give our 12-year old son a buddy, my husband and I agreed to bring home a puppy in the new year, a ridiculously fluffy, boisterous little Havanese. And suddenly we find that we are all breathing a little easier, smiling at the thought of this energetic new life entering ours. The tiniest flicker of hope is here again. — Usha Rao, PhiladelphiaI had been serving as a Peace Corps volunteer in Uganda through a program that was attached to the Corps. Funding for the program was cut when the Trump administration took over. I am 73 and I know that for three years I made a profound difference. I want to return to my students there in the midwifery program. The work has just begun. — Cherie Clark, Broomfield, Colo.My hope for 2019 is that all U.S. citizens will have fair and affordable access to health care services. I worked as an R.N. case manager for years, both on the insurance side and hospital side. Maybe people don’t realize the burdens of pre-existing conditions, health care services caps or young people not being able to get insurance. I hope for legislators who see the need to take care of their citizens, and that this country will have the stamina, concern and willpower to provide health care to all. — Georgia Stapleton, Shawano, Wis.My hope for 2019 is a return to the bad weather of the good old days, when California was wetter, Texas was dryer and hurricanes were just destructive, not biblical. My hope is that “sky rivers” revert to rainstorms that simply ruined graduations and picnics, and that snowstorms become a reason to drink hot chocolate under warm blankets again. Bad weather used to be an inconvenience that gave us welcome pauses from routine and bloated schedules. Nature is now a raging, unrelenting, unpredictable force, unsettling and sometimes downright scary. We are at its mercy and there is no help coming. — John White, Newport News, Va.I’m hopeful that my son and my daughter, both in their 20s, can be kind to each other again. They’re struggling to understand and adapt to the shifting dynamics of relationships between men and women in this #MeToo moment. They’re taking their frustrations out on each other and it’s hard for a mother to endure. — Pauline Andersen, MinneapolisI hope that we prioritize research for pediatric cancer in 2019. My daughter’s treatment used highly toxic chemotherapy with 30-year-old drugs. The side effects were horrific. The money floated for the wall could be a game changer for kids with cancer. — Debra Jacobs, Ashland, Va.My hope is to find more inner peace and stop relying on a world in chaos to deliver it to me. — K Lachenman, DenverI hope that some miracle occurs and my job starts paying a living wage or that my co-workers see the value of joining a union, leading to better wages for all of us. — Karen, OhioHope means family. I hope that in 2019 it will be easier to get a tourist visa to the U.S. I am here as an asylum applicant waiting for my papers and I have not seen my parents for years. Their visas have been rejected more than once since Trump became president. — Ecaterina Trohin, BostonHope is being given a fair chance to be and do what makes you happy. We all have obstacles but some are so institutionalized that many have no hope. I am a 71-year-old white man who has never experienced discrimination. I have always been at the front of line, not because of my abilities but because of the color of my skin. I know this will not be solved in 2019 but I hope we can make some reasonable progress. Is that too much to hope for? — Vincent Dailey, Wilton, Conn.As a dreamer who thought I could manifest anything with good intentions and hard work, 2018 was soul crushing for me. After a broken heart and the cruel machinations of divorce, I crawled on my emotional knees into a courtroom to defend my ability to keep my children and my home. As the judge granted me grace, I shook, cried and choked on my words of thanks. Hope in 2019 is still too abstract for my bruised heart, but I find that giving to others fills my empty cup. I can do for others what I cannot manifest for myself. And in my acts, their happiness and hope is reflected back to me, by proxy. — Cynthia Cole, Saratoga, Calif.Let 2019 be the year we break free from our phones. I don’t want to see parents scrolling through social media feeds at the playground while their little children shout desperately, “Look at me!” — Leslie DuPree, Davenport, IowaI hope Ruth Bader Ginsburg has the endurance and longevity of a tardigrade vampire. — Gary Taustine, ManhattanYes, of course I want a pennant. I’m a Yankee fan, I ALWAYS want a pennant. I want a Stanley Cup, I’m an Islander fan and it’s been too long. I hope and pray for health and happiness for my children.However, more than anything I hope to see change in government operations. I am so worn down and filled with rage at the current administration. I want to know that the one occupying the Oval Office shares my reverence for what it represents rather than make a global mockery of it. So hope to me for 2019 means a recommitment to feeling that positive change in government is possible, specifically that the path forward is proper, respectful and legal, and that we can once again be the nation the world turns to for inspiration, assistance and hope. — David Leicht, Long Island, N.Y.I hope that we citizens of the United States remain engaged in the political process and begin real discussions about race, health care, climate change, wealth distribution and our role in the world. We are at a crossroads, testing once again whether government of the people, by the people and for the people can long endure. I hope we pass the test. — David Keller MD, DenverI hope that 2019 is the year we stop blaming and name-calling and start connecting. I want 2019 to be the year we stop “talking politics” and start talking to each other. I hope that instead of talking about impeachment and the 2020 Democratic nominee, we can refocus on how communities can work together to change their own lives. Yes, policy is important, but policy will not save us from loneliness and depression. It cannot save us soon enough from climate change or inequality. If we want the world we live in to be different, we each have to take responsibility for changing it. I want this to be the year we stop looking to our elected officials as the next great hope and start looking for our allies among our neighbors instead. — Alicia Bonner Ness, Brooklyn, N.Y.I hope that the global trend toward strong men and bullying dictators as an easy solution to complex problems (is this partly a reaction to women’s momentum?) begins to wane, starting with Trump deposed or leaving under his own steam. It’s the example we can show to the world. — Sandra Neily, Greenville, Me.That President Trump resigns from office in a way that avoids him becoming a martyr to the right wing. I know, I know, I’m an inveterate optimist. — Roger Clayton, Schenectady, N.Y.Hope is an ideal that a situation will get better if an individual works to make a positive change in their circumstances. You can see it in the protests against Trump’s election and the Muslim ban, against the defunding of Planned Parenthood and the appointment of Justice Kavanaugh, and in the historic Women’s March. The citizens of this country are rising up to say that we have had enough. In a political sense, hope is that some of the abuses of power that have been constant over the past two years will be challenged and that a system of checks and balances will be restored. In 2019, hope may well become something real and Americans will be able to aspire to different ideals and dreams, replacing some of the fear and hatred that has been so rampant. I cling to this scenario because it is imperative that our government works for all of the citizens of this country. — Kathleen Kockritz, DallasAdvertisementSupported byIt’s vasectomy season in the United States. But American women get sterilized at higher rates. By Christina Caron[A newsletter for parents with evidence-based guidance and personal stories for your transformed life with kids. Sign up to get NYT Parenting in your inbox every week.]March Madness is upon us, and for urologists throughout the country that means one thing: It’s vasectomy season.Let me explain.Every year, men schedule their vasectomies in conjunction with the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, so they can watch the games while recovering on the couch with a frozen bag of peas.In fact, at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., so many men sign up for vasectomies during March Madness that appointments reach “max capacity,” said Dr. Tobias S. Kohler, a urologist and men’s health expert at the medical center who has observed this phenomenon ever since he was an attending physician a decade ago. But even though a study last year found a peak in the number of vasectomies during March — and also at the end of the year during the holidays — most men in this country don’t opt for sterilization: They rely on their female partners to prevent pregnancy.In the United States, female sterilization is twice as prevalent as vasectomy, according to 2015 estimates from the United Nations — despite the fact that vasectomy is equally effective, less invasive and carries a lower risk of complications.Why? It’s a blend of cost, misconceptions and fears about the procedure, and cultural expectations about what truly defines a man. Chris Lopez, 34, a father of three boys in Suffolk, Va., said even though he and his wife are not planning to have more children, he’s against the idea of a vasectomy.“If I couldn’t produce kids for some medical reason or biological reason, I know for a fact it would make me feel not good about myself,” he said. For Mr. Lopez, the ability to rear children is tied to his beliefs about masculinity. A man is many things, he said: strong, brave, a good dancer — but also, he’s supposed to be able to “have kids if that’s what he wants.” Then there are the practical considerations, he added. Looking ahead 20 years, will he and his wife still be married? Will she even be alive? “Maybe I meet a younger woman or something like that and she wants to have kids, and then I can’t give that to her,” Mr. Lopez said. His wife, Sarah Kennedy-Lopez, 38, said she laughed when she and her husband first discussed these hypothetical scenarios, but even so, she understands where he’s coming from. “Not all couples do make it,” she said, adding, “life does go on should a spouse die.”Their children — a 7-year-old and 4-year-old twins — were conceived via in vitro fertilization, and her chances of getting pregnant without assistance are so low that neither of them uses birth control. So she isn’t pressing the issue.“A couple times I have said to him, ‘Well, you know you could get a vasectomy and take care of that, so there would be no worries,’ and he says, ‘No, no, no — I’m not doing that. You can go and get your tubes tied,’” she said. “But I wouldn’t want to do that either, especially because I feel like I went through enough in conceiving our children in the first place.”Studies have shown that men who receive vasectomies in the United States are typically white, non-Hispanic and live in the North Central and Western regions of the country. They also tend to have private insurance.Vasectomy is covered either partially or in full under most insurance plans, but the procedure may require a referral from a primary care provider. Without insurance, the price is usually about $1,000. Vasectomy reversals, however, are not covered by insurance, and the procedure is cumbersome and expensive.By contrast, the Affordable Care Act required insurance companies to cover 18 types of contraception used by women, including sterilization surgery, and no co-payment is required. Aside from cost, getting a vasectomy often requires multiple visits to the doctor — first to establish consent, then to have the surgery and later to figure out when the sperm has been purged from the ejaculate. The entire process can take three months or more. Dr. Anuj Khattar, a fellow with Physicians for Reproductive Health who practices in the Seattle area, estimated that after the initial consultation, 20 to 30 percent of his patients end up either changing their minds or simply not showing up for the procedure. “I think part of the fears around vasectomy is that it’s so permanent,” Dr. Khattar said, adding that some men worry about “losing some of their virility and their ability to enjoy sex.” But “physiologically, it doesn’t affect any of those functions,” he said. “There’s just a lot of misinformation.”Ryan Cragun, a professor of sociology at the University of Tampa and father of one, said that despite his desire to get a vasectomy, he too had last-minute doubts: “Oh my gosh, I’m basically sterilizing myself,” he recalled thinking.Even though it is estimated that about half a million men receive vasectomies in the United States each year, Dr. Cragun said it isn’t something men tend to talk openly about. Post-vasectomy, he reports his sex life has improved, especially now that his wife is no longer taking birth control. “Her libido is up, there’s no condom involved — it’s better. That’s a win-win in every regard,” he said. In some countries, including Britain, South Korea, Canada, Ireland, Spain and Australia, the prevalence of vasectomy exceeds that of female sterilization, according to the United Nations. But worldwide, just like in the United States, female sterilization is far more common, and couples who use contraception choose methods designed to be used by women. Caila Smith, 25, a mother in Huntington, Ind., said she was encouraged to get her tubes tied by some of her health care providers after she became pregnant with twins a second time. She didn’t like the side effects of the birth control pill or Depo-Provera injections, both of which she had tried in the past, so she opted for tubal ligation after her children were born, in part because it was covered in full by insurance and she was told she could get the procedure done during her cesarean section. After enduring a painful recovery, she learned that her fiancé could have gotten a vasectomy at minimal cost and that she now has a higher risk of ectopic pregnancy, something that wasn’t clear to her beforehand. “They gave me a form and I guess I just kind of skimmed through it, you know, without digging too deep into what could happen,” she said. “If I knew then what I knew now, I feel like I would have pushed for him to get a vasectomy.” Unlike vasectomy, which is a quick outpatient procedure to cut and seal the tubes that carry sperm and block the transfer of sperm to the ejaculate, tubal ligation is far more invasive and often conducted under general anesthesia. The surgery, which involves cutting or blocking the fallopian tubes, carries higher rates of complications, including damage to surrounding organs, said Dr. Holly Bullock, an assistant professor in the department of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Arizona College of Medicine in Tucson.  The procedure does have its benefits, however.“It is immediately effective and can be completely her decision that does not rely upon a partner’s follow-through to get the procedure and the follow-up post-vasectomy semen analysis to prove that it was effective,” Dr. Bullock said.Tubal ligation may even reduce the risk of ovarian cancer, particularly among women who have BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutations, according to the American Cancer Society. And removing both fallopian tubes entirely, a procedure called salpingectomy, is thought to reduce the risk even more, Dr. Bullock said. That’s because doctors now believe that some ovarian cancers originate in the cells of the tubes.But, she added, she recommends vasectomy to patients who are exploring permanent options.Marco Cabrera, 38, a father of two in Traverse City, Mich., who had a vasectomy in 2016, said, “I feel like this is one place where men need to quote-unquote man up,” adding that he knew men who had refused to get vasectomies, insisting that their wives undergo sterilization instead. “I’m just really unimpressed with some of the men I meet,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byI moved to Europe because I couldn’t afford to be a cancer patient in America. I’d rather have been able to stay home.By Erica RexMs. Rex is a science writer.TOURS, France — A dozen of us sit expectantly in the orthopedic surgeon’s waiting room. We’re here for follow-ups. Some, like me, have had bunions removed. Others have had hips or knees replaced. Most are older women.The copies of Paris Match and Le Monde on the table are at least six months old. The only artwork is a framed print of Claude Monet’s “Poppy Fields Near Argenteuil.” Since I’m only two weeks out from surgery and can’t drive, I came by taxi. The fare was underwritten by the French social security system, known familiarly as la Sécu, which also provides health insurance for all residents.The woman seated opposite me tells me she’s on her second bunion surgery. Her doctor, a top orthopedic surgeon, charges more than the normal Sécu compensation, as do many specialists. Most French people purchase a supplementary insurance plan to cover costs not picked up by la Sécu. As a French resident and taxpayer, I have one too.Another woman is recovering from a hip replacement. Medical chat is common in French waiting rooms. If the wait is long, everyone comes to know everything about one another’s complaints.To my friends in the United States, this casual attitude seems foolish, even risky. But in France, medical privacy is irrelevant. No one will lose her job because of a lengthy convalescence. There is no possibility that pre-existing conditions will make insurance unaffordable. Unemployed people still receive treatment. Huge medical bills do not reduce ordinary citizens to a state of existential terror. The absence of unease over health care alters the texture of French experience. We get cozy in waiting rooms.A woman in her late 60s sits next to me. She fidgets and appears close to tears. She leans over and asks in a low voice how long it has been since my surgery. She’s wearing the orthopedic boot, but unlike the rest of us bunion ladies, she’s still using crutches. She tells me she had surgery four weeks ago and believes something is wrong.The woman across from me leans forward.“Que s'est-il passé?” What happened? My neighbor describes a “sensation de craquement” — the feeling that the bones in her foot are crunching when she puts weight on it.Three other women reassure her: The bone crunching is normal. Those bones had to be broken and realigned to reshape her foot. Yes, but the physical therapist told her that the doctor had botched something. Now she’s frightened. The therapist was completely wrong, we tell her. She seems relieved, but grows worried again when she realizes she should have restarted physical therapy sessions a month ago.Then the doctor appears and calls the woman’s name. Even rock-star orthopedists here don’t have nurses helping them in their offices. The doctor changes his own examining table paper. His staff consists of two foul-tempered office assistants who make appointments, take payments and hand out prescriptions.The woman picks up her crutches. He raises his hands in question. The crutches? Still? She fights back tears. We reassure her it will be fine. She limps after him into the examining room, dragging the crutches in one hand.I am an accidental European. I developed breast cancer in 2009. With no continuing medical coverage in the United States, and in desperate need of it, I moved to Britain. Under the sponsorship of an acquaintance, I was granted “indefinite leave to remain” and received care through the National Health Service. When I moved to France four years ago, the French system quickly took over covering me.It has taken me nine years to grow accustomed to the idea that my health care won’t suddenly evaporate at the whim of a new government. Doctors here often ask how I landed in Europe. When I tell them, they shake their heads. American values are deranged, they say.Sometimes I encounter Americans for whom visiting France is like a trip to Disneyland, only with foie gras, and they’ll ask about medical care.One such visitor, on learning I have a “carte vitale,” a social security card, asked, “How did you score that?” as if health insurance was like box seats at a Yankees-Red Sox game.I don’t live in the promotional brochure version of France those Americans are touring. France for me was not a vacation selection. Moving to Europe was a choice weighed against other, grimmer options for health care, which included the strong possibility of being bankrupted by cancer treatment and winding up at the mercy of New York State’s welfare system.In France I can rest assured I will not be refused care for any treatable condition, including a painful bunion — or yes, even a recurrence of breast cancer. All the same, I’d rather have been able to get coverage without emigrating. Too many Americans do not realize how much better off they would be if they felt safer about access to medical care. Imagine what might happen if everyone felt safe — safe enough to talk about ailments in waiting rooms.AdvertisementSupported byEditors’ ChoiceThe past and the present are in lively conversation in this week’s recommendations, from a graphic novel version of Anne Frank’s diary to a collection of 1960s-era Japanese short stories to a debut novel out of Appalachia that draws overtly on the models of classic hard-boiled fiction and film noir. History is a theme in the week’s other fiction as well: A Cuban novel set against the easing of relations with the United States, and a British novel about an Iron Age re-enactment retreat. That one opens with human sacrifice. The good old days!Our other recommendations are very much of the moment, and maybe even the future: a look at immunotherapy as the most promising path forward for cancer treatment, and two books about how easy it is, and how dangerous, to cling to ideas that simply reinforce what we believe to be true.Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksDOWN TO EARTH: Politics in the New Climatic Regime, by Bruno Latour. Translated by Catherine Porter. (Polity, cloth, $49.95; paper, $14.95.)THE MISINFORMATION AGE: How False Beliefs Spread, by Cailin O’Connor and James Owen Weatherall. (Yale, $26.) These new books offer “a way to think through the seemingly insurmountable impasse carved out by political polarization and fake news,” our critic Jennifer Szalai writes. Latour, an anthropologist and philosopher, argues in “Down to Earth” that climate change is forcing all of us to confront truths that seem hard to reconcile, and criticizes our complacent faith in the ability of facts to speak for themselves. In “The Misinformation Age,” two professors of logic break down the mechanics of false beliefs, focusing mainly on ideas held by scientists, to show how even the most well-intentioned beliefs become distorted and spread.SUGAR RUN, by Mesha Maren. (Algonquin, $26.95.) An ex-convict returns to her Appalachian roots in this debut novel that harks back to hard-boiled fiction and film noir even as it updates those venerable genres. “Though the powerful pulls of land and home and sense of place persist,” Charles Frazier writes in his review, “one of the primary questions ‘Sugar Run’ asks is what these concepts even mean now in this country. Maren is masterly at describing America’s modern wastelands, the blasted towns not yet and maybe never-to-be the beneficiaries of rehabilitation and reoccupation.”ANNE FRANK’S DIARY: The Graphic Adaptation, adapted by Ari Folman. Illustrated by David Polonsky. (Pantheon, $24.95.) By turning the famous diary of a girl hiding from the Nazis into a graphic novel, Folman and Polonsky bring out its wit and humor in whimsical illustrations capturing Anne’s rich imaginative life. “The comedy of the ‘Diary’ — one of the book’s most charming and often overlooked aspects — shines in this form,” our reviewer, Ruth Franklin, writes. “Another consistent standout is the way the graphic novel conveys Anne’s fantasies and emotions. … This graphic adaptation is so engaging and effective that it’s easy to imagine it replacing the ‘Diary’ in classrooms and among younger readers.”REVOLUTION SUNDAY, by Wendy Guerra. Translated by Achy Obejas. (Melville House, paper, $16.99.) This Cuban novel, about a poet named Cleo facing political and personal questions amid the loosening grip of socialism, plays with expectations; as often as Guerra gives a concrete description of Havana, she gives one that dances and evades. “More than in its plot — a Cold War conspiracy of sorts — the movement of ‘Revolution Sunday’ is in the coming and going from the island, the beacon that will find Cleo in Paris, Barcelona and New York,” Jaime Lalinde writes in his review. “What emerges in ‘Revolution Sunday’ is primarily a novel of the self, of an artist contending with her own vanishing. The paradox of isolation without privacy. The isle in the word exile.”GHOST WALL, by Sarah Moss. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) This compact, riveting novel, about a 17-year-old working-class girl forced by her parents to join a re-enactment of Iron Age Britain, asks us to question our complicity in violence, particularly against women. According to Alyson Hagy’s review, Moss “salts the novel with women who practice ancient skills with modesty, who honor historical experience without slavishly imitating it. … If most of the women in ‘Ghost Wall’ find solidarity through collaboration, the men become transfixed by their desire ‘to kill things and talk about fighting.’”THE BREAKTHROUGH: Immunotherapy and the Race to Cure Cancer, by Charles Graeber. (Twelve, $28.) Training the body’s immune system to fight disease now offers the most promising developments in the effort to battle cancer. Graeber recounts the treatment’s 19th-century origins and provides a panoramic view of the work being done today to make it effective. The book, Mimi Swartz writes in her review, “relates an unfolding and very frustrating mystery. Researchers have come tantalizingly close to beating the disease — even creating miraculous cures in mice and the occasional human — only to come up against another harrowing complexity in the body they hadn’t imagined or anticipated. Over the years, these scientists became like a platoon that could get itself behind enemy lines, only to find itself without weapons. Returning with weapons, they would find they had no bullets. Returning with bullets, they would discover they had the wrong kind, and so on. ‘The Breakthrough’ is the story of this desperate war waged on a cellular level.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Kenneth ChangJean Bourgain, a mathematician who conquered difficult problems prolifically across a wide swath of fields, died on Dec. 22 at a hospital in Bonheiden, Belgium. He was 64.The Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., where Dr. Bourgain was a professor, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.Dr. Bourgain’s honors included a Fields Medal in 1994, perhaps the most prestigious prize in mathematics, and the 2017 Breakthrough Prize, which was accompanied by $3 million. That prize, whose sponsors include Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, and Sergey Brin, a founder of Google, attempts to bring popular attention to researchers at the cutting edge of science and mathematics.Dr. Bourgain wrote or co-wrote more than 500 papers, far more than most professional mathematicians.“He was a problem solver unequaled,” Peter C. Sarnak, a colleague of Dr. Bourgain’s at the institute, said in an interview.Dr. Sarnak said that Bourgain started out in an esoteric corner of mathematics with extremely difficult problems. “He just came in and started solving one problem after the other in that subject,” he said. “So he made his name there, became very famous, winning all sorts of young-up-and-coming-star prizes. But then he broadened out.”Dr. Bourgain found that tools he had developed could also be applied to other fields of mathematics, including partial differential equations, computer science, quantum mechanics and dynamical systems, making progress on formidable problems that had stymied experts in those areas.“There would be some big mountain in front of you,” Dr. Sarnak said, “and he would ascend halfway up, occasionally all the way up. People couldn’t understand how he got all the way up. It would take often months or years for people to understand his proofs. He liked the idea that he was way ahead and people were catching up to him all the time. He would open these doors.”Some of Dr. Bourgain’s recent work included a “decoupling theorem” — a very abstract generalization of the Pythagorean theorem applied to oscillating waves, like light or radio waves. While Pythagoras merely showed how the length of the two shorter sides of a right triangle are related to the longer hypotenuse, the decoupling theorem proved by Dr. Bourgain and Ciprian Demeter, of Indiana University, showed similar relationships in the superposition of waves, when the individual oscillations are added together.The Belgian government bestowed the title of baron on Dr. Bourgain in 2015. He designed a coat of arms for himself with the inscription “In spem contra spem,” or “In hope against hope.”Jean Bourgain was born on Feb. 28, 1954, in Ostend, Belgium. After receiving a doctorate from the Free University of Brussels in 1977, he became a professor at the university in 1981.In 1985, he began splitting time between the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and the Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques in Paris. He was also a professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the California Institute of Technology before moving to the Institute for Advanced Study in 1994.Dr. Bourgain worked in the area of mathematics known as analysis, which often studies inequalities, with the aim of trying to simplify problems instead of coming up with exact solutions. “The art of analysis is not to lose the important information,” Vitali Milman, a mathematician at Tel-Aviv University in Israel, said in a phone interview.Dr. Milman recalled that he and Dr. Bourgain were once discussing a math problem and Dr. Bourgain told him that he had always kept two problems in mind: “One which I want to solve and another which I can solve.”When Dr. Bourgain was stuck on the problem he was working on, Dr. Milman said, he would work through the other one — which he knew how to work through — to reassure himself that he had not become “impotent in mathematics.”What was amazing, Dr. Milman said, was that Dr. Bourgain could intuit that a problem was solvable: “He was ready to do it, before he actually knew how to do it.”Dr. Bourgain was less comfortable in the classroom. While teaching a course at Illinois, he once asked Dr. Milman to join him on campus to provide emotional support. Before a lecture Dr. Bourgain was to give, Dr. Milman noticed him looking at a piece of paper. Dr. Milman asked if he was doing last-minute preparations. No, Dr. Bourgain replied; he was calculating what he would earn for holding the class.“When I see the number,” he told Dr. Milman, “I feel at ease going to the lecture.”Dr. Bourgain’s cancer was diagnosed in late 2014, but he continued his math research.Larry Guth, a mathematician at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, recalled coming across the decoupling theorem by Dr. Bourgain and Dr. Demeter. Their proof went against the expectations of people in the field. “That made me very curious about it,” Dr. Guth said in an interview.But Dr. Guth was hesitant to contact Dr. Bourgain, who had undergone cancer surgery a few months earlier. Then he checked an online archive of mathematics papers and found that Dr. Bourgain had posted several new papers since his operation.Dr. Guth wrote to Dr. Bourgain and Dr. Demeter, and they began discussing how to extend the work. A couple of weeks later, Dr. Guth was visiting Princeton and went to visit Dr. Bourgain, who then explained how to solve the problem they had been discussing. “It filled 10 blackboards,” Dr. Guth said.The resulting paper used the superposition of waves to settle a question about integers — a problem that had been intractable for more than 80 years.Dr. Bourgain is survived by his wife, Mei-Chu Chang; a son, Eric; and a sister, Claire Bourgain.A year ago, the American Mathematical Society honored Dr. Bourgain with its Steele Prize for lifetime achievement, but he was not done.
          PAID FOR AND POSTED BY 
          UNIVERSITY OF IOWA

@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Source Serif Pro');
T
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Eczar');
ed Abel is mobilizing an interdisciplinary team of researchers at the University of Iowa who are committed to improving the lives of individuals with psychiatric and neurological disorders. For him, the mission is personal.
As Ted Abel talks about his son, Seamus, he does what many proud parents often do: He whips out his phone and pulls up a photo. In it, a smiling teenager dons a black cap and gown and a bow tie. It’s an image from Seamus’s recent high school graduation ceremony.It was an exciting moment for Abel and his wife, Noreen, and one neither wants to take for granted. Completing high school was not a sure thing for Seamus. A week after his birth, the new parents were wracked with worry and fear in the neonatal intensive care unit at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. Their infant had stopped eating and urinating.Source: World Economic ForumBrain imaging revealed low-grade bleeding in his ventricles, which Abel says explained the symptoms. Seamus was stabilized, though developmental pediatricians continued to closely monitor his progress. At 3, Seamus was diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder. He didn’t see a typical classroom until the fourth grade. Although Seamus is high-functioning — he studied AP German his senior year in high school and helped take his bocce team to the state tournament — Abel says his son encounters difficulties every day, suffers from anxiety and doesn’t have peer friendships.Source: World Economic Forum“The trajectory for him was very unclear,” Abel says, “and to be where he is today, graduating from high school, is really terrific. It’s amazing thinking back on it.” Seamus is now enrolled in an education and support program for students with autism based at the Kinney Center of Saint Joseph’s University in Philadelphia.When Seamus was born, Abel was a junior faculty member in neuroscience studying behavior, learning and memory at the University of Pennsylvania. Over time, his son’s diagnosis motivated him to expand his research focus to include autism. Now he leads a brain research institute at the University of Iowa and is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In the last two years, Abel has published several research papers on autism, and he is poised to oversee research breakthroughs that could help his son and many others.Source: National Institute of Mental HealthSource: National Institute of Mental HealthIn 2017, Abel moved to Iowa City to become the first director of the Iowa Neuroscience Institute at the University of Iowa. Buoyed by a $45 million gift from the Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, and two floors of dedicated lab space, Abel has assembled a multidisciplinary team of more than 100 scientists determined to solve the mysteries of the brain and nervous system. They intend to find causes of and develop treatments for a range of psychiatric and neurological disorders, from autism and Alzheimer’s disease to stroke. The university’s Carver College of Medicine dedicated two floors of lab space to the institute in its newest biomedical research building, which also houses shared research facilities.“In other areas of medicine, like cardiology and cancer and diabetes, doctors have been able to develop tests,” Abel says. “They’ve been able to develop treatments that either delay disease, as in the case of heart disease, or treat those disorders, as in HIV. With neurodevelopmental, neurological and psychiatric disorders, however, we haven’t gotten there.”
Source: 2017 Annals of Neurology reportSource: 2017 Annals of Neurology reportAutism, for example, affects an estimated 1 in 59 children in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In a recent study, Abel uncovered a clue about the male predominance in autism: Male mice that model autism showed an impaired ability to associate reward with a particular stimulus and response.“Reward learning gives us a window into a brain region called the striatum that mediates this kind of learning,” he says. “This type of learning underlies our ability to predict what will happen in the world. Many individuals on the autism spectrum have trouble predicting what will happen next or coping when what they expect to happen does not occur, leading to difficulties in social interaction and communication.”In the past decade, neuroscience has introduced techniques from physics, engineering, chemistry and biochemistry to manipulate and image circuits of nerve cells in the brain. Abel hopes to use those findings to understand how neurons in the brain work to drive behavior.Abel’s vision and energy inspire confidence in Hanna Stevens, a researcher and assistant professor of psychiatry who came to the University of Iowa from the Yale School of Medicine. She studies the genetic and environmental factors that influence early brain development and how those factors may play a role in childhood behavior or influence the risk of psychiatric disorders. She shares Abel’s commitment to improving the lives of individuals with brain disorders.“Not only do they have a major illness that puts them at a great disability, they have a society that often doesn’t take that disability seriously,” Stevens says. “People may even dismiss the disability as a character flaw or a moral failing.” Their collaboration should facilitate the development of new interventions, which is fundamental for people who are undermined by mental illness, she says, adding, “We’ll also help make the world a better place for these individuals by showing others that problems in the brain are actually causing these disorders.”If raising a son with autism has imparted one thing, it’s empathy, Abel says. He says he better understands the lives of people with neurological and psychiatric disorders and those of their families — and he is motivated to help improve their lives. Breakthroughs in brain research are forthcoming, and scientists are making advances, especially in terms of understanding genes and neural circuits, he says. Diagnoses and treatments have improved, and public awareness is growing. Acceptance of individuals with these disorders, he adds, must follow.AdvertisementSupported bySuperbugs are spreading. We need doctors trained to treat them. By Matt McCarthyDr. McCarthy specializes in infectious diseases. Many have heard of the rise of drug-resistant infections. But few know about an issue that’s making this threat even scarier in the United States: the shortage of specialists capable of diagnosing and treating those infections. Infectious diseases is one of just two medicine subspecialties that routinely do not fill all of their training spots every year in the National Resident Matching Program (the other is nephrology). Between 2009 and 2017, the number of programs filling all of their adult-infectious-disease training positions dropped by more than 40 percent. This could not be happening at a worse time. Antibiotic-resistant microbes, known as superbugs, are pinballing around the world, killing hundreds of thousands of people every year. The Times recently reported on Candida auris, a deadly new fungus that has infected hospital patients in Illinois, New Jersey and New York.Everyone who works in health care agrees that we need more infectious-disease doctors, yet very few actually want the job. What’s going on?The problem is that infectious-disease specialists care for some of the most complicated patients in the health care system, yet they are among the lowest paid. It is one of the only specialties in medicine that sometimes pays worse than being a general practitioner. At many medical centers, a board-certified internist accepts a pay cut of 30 percent to 40 percent to become an infectious-disease specialist. This has to do with the way our insurance system reimburses doctors. Medicare assigns relative value units to the thousands of services that doctors provide, and these units largely determine how much physicians are paid. The formula prioritizes invasive procedures over intellectual expertise.[Never be uninteresting. Read the most thought-provoking, delightful and raw stories from The New York Times Opinion section. Sign up for our Sunday Best newsletter.]The problem is that infectious-disease doctors don’t really do procedures. It is a cognitive specialty, providing expert consultation, and insurance doesn’t pay much for that.For example, I recently diagnosed a case of fungal pneumonia. To arrive at this diagnosis took hours: first, speaking with the patient’s primary care doctor and pulmonologist, followed by a long stretch reviewing chest X-rays and other imaging studies with a radiologist, before examining the cells in the patient’s lung tissue under a microscope to confirm the diagnosis and report back to the anxious patient and family. Most of this work was done for free.A generation ago, most well-rounded doctors knew what to do when a patient developed a fever. Not anymore. New threats like Candida auris pop up all the time, and to identify a deadly pathogen, we often have to use a sophisticated technique called matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. As the name suggests, it requires a bit of expertise.Back in the day, there were only a handful of reliable antibiotics to choose from. But as more bugs have emerged, and more have become resistant to standard treatments, we’ve had to develop new drugs to fight them. The good news is that in 2018, the Food and Drug Administration approved a cadre of new antibiotics to confront the rising threat of superbugs, including eravacycline, plazomicin and omadacycline, and we can expect even more this year. But very few physicians know how to use these powerful new drugs. Many don’t even know how to pronounce them.Infectious-disease specialists are often the only health care providers in a hospital — or an entire town — who know when to use all of the new antibiotics (and when to withhold them). These experts serve as an indispensable cog in the health care machine, but if trends continue, we won’t have enough of them to go around. The terrifying part is that most patients won’t even know about the deficit. Your doctor won’t ask a specialist for help because in some parts of the country, the service simply won’t be available. She’ll just have to wing it.My family got a taste of how much this matters in 2017, when my father-in-law, Bill, learned he had an aggressive form of pancreatic cancer, a disease that kills many patients within a year. Not long after he was started on chemotherapy, Bill developed a fever. A potentially lethal bacterium, Staphylococcus aureus, had entered his blood and soon leapt to his spine, leaving him partially paralyzed. His cancer treatments were put on hold to address the more immediate threat of an infection. But stopping chemotherapy gave the tumor a chance to grow, causing Bill’s chances of survival to plummet.Death appeared imminent until he was transferred to NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and put under the care of an infectious-disease specialist, who quickly devised a treatment plan that cured the infection and ultimately saved his life. Studies show that patients with Bill’s infection are more likely to survive hospitalization if an infectious- disease specialist is consulted. Others with his condition may not be so fortunate.The Infectious Diseases Society of America and other professional organizations have devised aggressive recruitment and advocacy strategies, but there is far more work to be done. It begins with the recognition that infectious-disease doctors are overworked and underpaid. Our insurance system needs a better way to measure the value of diagnoses and treatments so that we can fairly reimburse doctors in cognitive specialties.We must hurry. Superbugs are coming for us. We need experts who know how to treat them.Matt McCarthy, an infectious-disease doctor at Weill Cornell, is the author of the forthcoming “Superbugs: The Race to Stop an Epidemic.”AdvertisementSupported byEssayBy Marie Myung-Ok LeeI read every night to my teenage son, who has severe autism. Only recently has he been calm enough to tolerate this, but it’s become an enjoyable ritual. I’m not sure what he understands, yet as I read Helen Macdonald’s memoir, “H Is for Hawk,” about a woman’s year of grief and falconry, J gets a dreamy look on his face. On nights he’s worried I’ll forget, he’ll come to me and demand: “Read bird hawk!”As a teacher, book columnist and novelist, I’m something of a professional reader. Casting about for what to read to J next, I’ve noticed a surge of books with autism in them. I don’t mean books about autism, but, rather, novels that include characters who have autism or that use symptoms of the disorder as a metaphor or plot device, or to stylize language.These portrayals drove me to revisit “Illness as Metaphor” (1978), Susan Sontag’s critical look at the “literary transfiguration” of illness. Tuberculosis, a microbial infection characterized by sputum and wracking coughs, became the “romantic disease” of the 19th century, its fevers and pallor standing in for creativity, beauty and moral superiority. Novels of the era were populated with beautiful TB deaths whenever an innocent deserved a peaceful and painless end, perhaps most memorably Little Eva in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”With the virtual eradication of tuberculosis in the 20th century, it receded as a dominant form of illness — in art as in life. Cancer filled the void, but with darker metaphors of shame, external disfigurement, war. Like cancer and like TB before the discovery of the mycobacterium tuberculosis, autism is a condition whose etiology remains largely a mystery.Bruno Bettelheim, in his influential book “The Empty Fortress: Infantile Autism and the Birth of the Self” (1967), famously blamed the disorder on emotionally frigid “refrigerator mothers,” and doctors recommended that children with autism be separated from their mothers and institutionalized.Sontag concluded that the truest way to portray illness was without metaphor, and it might seem that Bettelheim was writing in the metaphor-free space of observational science. But though his publishers touted him as a child psychologist, he had no credentials other than having attended three introductory classes in the field.Vestiges of the “refrigerator mother” metaphor continue in literature. Cormac McCarthy’s postapocalyptic novel “The Road” (2006) takes place in a “cold autistic dark.” The narrator of Jonathan Lethem’s novel “The Fortress of Solitude” (2003) compares himself with his childhood friend Arthur: “It was a form of autism, a failure at social mimicry that had kept me from the adaptations which made Arthur more Brooklyn than me. … I’d had to hide in books, Manhattanize.” The book’s title refers to Superman’s hide-out in the frigid polar wastes of the Arctic, and, intentionally or not, echoes Bettelheim’s empty fortress. Lethem has cited autism as a source of literary inspiration: “It’s evocative for me. I’m enticed by it.”More recently, in Don DeLillo’s “Zero K” (2016), a near-future novel about the attempt of the hyper-rich to attain eternal life, a character named Jeffrey observes a class of special-needs children: “The boy at the end of the table who can’t produce the specific motor movements that would allow him to speak words that others might understand” and “the girl who could not take a step without sensing some predetermined danger,” adding, in a nod to Sontag, “She was not a metaphor.” And yet the end of the novel features a presumably autistic child pressed into metaphoric duty, when the same character, riding a New York City bus at dusk, watches a boy repetitively bouncing in time to “prelinguistic grunts” and “howls.” As the sun’s last rays illuminate the columns of skyscrapers, Jeffrey reflects: “I didn’t need heaven’s light. I had the boy’s cries of wonder.”Thus autism becomes a metaphor for higher human understanding, a transcendent plane beyond language. In DeLillo’s novel “The Body Artist” (2001), an odd character appears inside the rented house of the female body artist of the book’s title. His language is limited to nonsensical word groupings and repeating what is said to him — an echolalia that is a hallmark of autism. Unable to discern even his name, the body artist calls him “Mr. Tuttle,” after a bumbling teacher from her childhood. Readers often infer that Mr. Tuttle is a ghost, a figment of the body artist’s imagination. But DeLillo told one critic that he intended the character to be real: “a kind of dead end — or one step beyond all human striving toward expressibility. What do we express, finally, at the end of it all? A kind of muteness, perhaps.”That autism explodes the conventional American nuclear family narrative makes it irresistible as a metaphor for the stresses of life under late-stage capitalism. In Helen Schulman’s “A Day at the Beach” (2007), a wealthy Manhattan couple navigate the worst day of their lives: the 9/11 disaster, which causes them to flee their swank downtown home (to the Hamptons) and strains their marriage — already at the breaking point owing to a son who shows clear signs of autism. In Gary Shteyngart’s “Lake Success” (2018), a son’s autism diagnosis similarly destroys an elite Manhattan family’s dreams. The high-living protagonist leaves the scene of an altercation with his wife and nanny over his son and heads straight to the Greyhound station to start a picaresque journey to the other end of the country — a journey in search of an old girlfriend and, one surmises, an autism-less American dream.Like TB and cancer before it, autism can accumulate moral weight. In Louise Erdrich’s “Four Souls” (2004), a white settler who has despoiled the Minnesota pine forests and cheated its Ojibwe inhabitants subsequently endures the immolation of his business empire as well as the birth of a son with “vacant” eyes, “the very picture of idiocy,” who makes “hideous” sounds and cannot be “soothed out of his gross repetition.” Here is the transfiguration of a neurobiological disease into one that lays waste to the mind, taking along with it all the qualities that make us human. In “Lake Success,” the protagonist eventually returns home to his son, and — just as Little Eva’s beautiful tubercular fade in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” spurs her father to promise to free his slaves — in Shteyngart’s novel, autism becomes a vehicle for the father’s spiritual growth.I ask myself why using autism the way these books do feels wrong. As a child who was disappointed to find the only Asian characters in any book in the library to be the Japanese-American family in “Farewell to Manzanar,” I am acutely aware of the importance of feeling represented in literature. And yet, when it comes to autism appearing in literary fiction, I instinctively feel a need to protect my son from these portrayals. He’s not an Ojibwe curse, a savant or an alien. Nor is he an emotionless cipher with no inner life.As a writer, I understand the absurdity of trying to place restrictions on what can and can’t be written about. Keats defined negative capability as an artist’s ability to transmute an experience or idea into art even if she hasn’t experienced it herself; without it, we’d have no historical fiction, no “Madame Bovary,” no “Martian Chronicles.”The crux of the issue is that with autism there is often, not metaphorically but literally, a lack of voice, which renders the person a tabula rasa on which a writer can inscribe and project almost anything: Autism is a gift, a curse, super intelligence, mental retardation, mystical, repellent, morally edifying, a parent’s worst nightmare. As a writer, I say go ahead and write what you want. As a parent, I find this terrifying, given the way neurotypical people project false motives and feelings onto the actions of others every day.With this divided consciousness, I am endlessly appreciative of “The Reason I Jump” (2013), a book by Naoki Higashida, a Japanese man with autism who is nonverbal and beset by behaviors that would, by conventional standards, cause him to be labeled, like my son, “low-functioning.”Higashida’s mother created a special alphabet grid that eventually allowed her son to communicate by pointing. While still a teenager, he wrote “The Reason I Jump,” describing what it feels like to have autism.The book made its way to the English-speaking world after being discovered and translated from the Japanese by the novelist David Mitchell and his wife, KA Yoshida, who have a son with autism. Mitchell wrote that “‘The Reason I Jump’ consolidated my wife’s and my suspicions that, in fact, people with autism feel what everyone else does. They just cannot show they feel it.” This book is a single author’s perspective, not a textbook, but I’m grateful for Higashida’s hard-won voice: “You can’t judge a person by their looks. But once you know the other person’s inner self, both of you can be that much closer. From your point of view, the world of autism must look like a deeply mysterious place. So please, spare a little time to listen to what I have to say.”My son, J, has a beautiful, warm smile. He also screams and barks for no particular reason I can discern. He laughs loudly at “inappropriate” times. He repetitively jumps up and down and calls it “dancing.” He has hit and bit me and my husband, and hit himself as well. His disordered language is a neurological effect, not a tendency toward gnomic utterances. The dysfunction of the mirror neurons in his brain does not render him a Lethemesque “failure at social mimicry.” The noise and stress of ordinary conversation can cause him to shut down, yet I would never say that he is cold or lacks emotions or prefers to stay inside himself.I don’t know what J is thinking, but I know that he is thinking. Sontag wrote movingly of the anguish experienced by cancer patients in a culture where a harrowing disease is also associated with shame. Now that my son appears to enjoy it when I read to him, I hope to introduce him to a wide variety of books, being mindful to avoid those that reduce his experience — and, by extension, him — to a literary construct.Marie Myung-Ok Lee teaches fiction writing at Columbia. Her next novel, “The Evening Hero,” will be published in 2020.AdvertisementSupported byThe president lied about abortion in the State of the Union.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistThe State of the Union address on Tuesday night was, as expected, an interminable farrago of boasting, nativism, saccharine clichés and outright lies. Among the biggest of those lies were Donald Trump’s claims about third-trimester abortion. “Lawmakers in New York cheered with delight upon the passage of legislation that would allow a baby to be ripped from the mother’s womb moments from birth,” he said of the state’s recent Reproductive Health Act. He added, “And then we had the case of the governor of Virginia where he stated he would execute a baby after birth.”That governor, Ralph Northam, is not an easy man to defend at the moment, given the vile racist photographs recently discovered in his medical school yearbook, and the way he’s clinging to office despite near-universal Democratic calls for his resignation. Nevertheless, Northam’s words about a proposed change to Virginia abortion law — one with no chance of passing — have been grossly and cynically mischaracterized by the right in the service of ginning up a moral panic.Northam, speaking on the radio, was responding to a ridiculous hypothetical, floated by the Republican majority leader in the Virginia House of Delegates, about a woman in labor getting a doctor’s certification to obtain an abortion for mental health reasons.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]The governor made the mistake of taking this scenario seriously. He surely knew, even if the Republican lawmaker did not, that in Virginia, when a woman terminates a pregnancy because the fetus has severe abnormalities and can’t survive outside the womb, it falls under the rubric of protecting her mental health. (The law has no separate exception for fetal viability.) He, therefore, described what would actually happen if, during labor, grave fetal health problems were discovered. The infant, he said, would be delivered and kept comfortable while the family decided how to proceed. He was not advocating killing newborns, which is illegal, and would remain so under the proposed change to Virginia’s law.It also remains illegal under New York’s new law, which, among other things, allows for terminations after 24 weeks when a fetus isn’t viable or when a woman’s health is at risk. Previously, such abortions were allowed only to save a woman’s life. The New York Civil Liberties Union, in documenting the injustices of the old law, described the ordeal of a woman named Sophia who unexpectedly became pregnant while battling five types of cancer. “Sophia learned that the fetus had multiple severe anomalies as a result of her cancer treatment, and was unlikely to survive after birth,” the group wrote. “However, because Sophia’s pregnancy was beyond New York’s 24-week legal limit, providers would not take the apparent legal risk associated with performing an abortion.” She ended up traveling 2,000 miles to have the procedure in another state.There’s probably no way to get anti-abortion conservatives to let go of the idea that the pro-choice agenda involves the wanton killing of full-term babies. Some genuinely believe that liberals and feminists practice something akin to human sacrifice. (“It is clear Moloch has worshipers today and to this false god the children of America are being offered up on the altars of autonomy and choice,” said a Christian Post op-ed about New York’s new abortion law.) Others, like Trump, are indifferent to the complicated reality and simply delighted by the opportunity to adopt a pose of moral sanctimony. Trump clearly views late abortion as an expedient wedge issue; in his State of the Union address, he called on Congress to pass a law banning abortion “of children who can feel pain in the mother’s womb.” While such a law has no chance in the current Congress, the proposal is a useful reminder that if Roe v. Wade is overturned, abortion law won’t simply be left to the states, because the anti-abortion movement is eager to pass national restrictions.After the State of the Union, abortion opponents, among the president’s most loyal backers, were ebullient. “Once again President Trump has proved he is our nation’s most #ProLife president ever,” tweeted the Susan B. Anthony List.Their satisfaction may, however, be misplaced. Late abortion is a complex issue, and a great many Americans find it deeply disturbing. Trump, however, is so hated that he tends to turn many people against whatever it is he argues for. (It’s part of the reason support for both immigration and Obamacare has risen during his tenure.)  There may be no better way to persuade the ambivalent that late abortions are sometimes a tragic necessity than for Trump to floridly denounce them.I’m not looking forward to yet another  reprise of the abortion wars. But if someone’s going to lead an old-fashioned family values charge, it might as well be the living embodiment of louche male chauvinism, a man who refuses to say whether he has ever paid for an abortion himself. Trump is incapable of telling the truth, but he’s a pretty honest symbol of the patriarchal ideals of the movement that’s made him its champion.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCANBERRA — Australia's opposition Labor party on Thursday promised sweeping tax cuts for low-income workers and more spending on healthcare as it sought to outflank the government on key battleground issues ahead of an election to be held within weeks.The centre-left party is well ahead in the polls after six years of a conservative government that has been riddled with internal ructions that have toppled two prime ministers. An election must be held by mid-May and could be called as soon as this week.Replying to the government's pre-election budget unveiled earlier this week, Labor promised to match tax cuts for middle-income Australians, people earning between A$48,000-A$126,000 ($34,123-$89,573).But Labor said higher earners would receive less benefits than what the government proposed to fund bigger concessions for people on less than A$45,000."The Liberals talk so much about being back in the black but the budget papers reveal a much paler shade of grey," Labor leader Bill Shorten told Australia's parliament."We believe that Australia does best when working class and middle-class Australia gets a fair go."The government's budget promised A$158 billion in tax cuts though the bulk was set to come after 2023 by reducing higher tax brackets. The government also said 94 percent of Australians would pay a flat tax rate of 30 percent by July 1, 2024.Shorten said Labor will not implement those changes.Prime Minister Scott Morrison also promised record funding on healthcare and education, but Labor said it will outspend the conservative government in both.Labor did not reveal specific funding but Shorten promised an extra A$2.3 billion for cancer treatment.To fund the spending, Shorten committed to scrapping a favourable tax scheme for multiple property owners. The policy is widely seen as contributing to higher house prices, leaving many younger voters unable to get into the market.Tapping into concerns about inequality, Shorten rejected calls to defer a Labor plan to restrict the concessions to properties purchased only after Jan 1, 2020."A government must be brave enough and decent enough to stop the bias against first home buyers and young Australians and we will be that government," said Shorten.AdvertisementSupported byA new report found that, for the first time, Americans are more likely to die of an opioid overdose than in a vehicle crash. But the likeliest causes of death are still heart disease and cancer.By Patricia MazzeiThe opioid crisis in the United States has become so grim that Americans are now likelier to die of an overdose than in a vehicle crash.That’s according to a new report by the National Safety Council that analyzed the causes of preventable deaths in the country in 2017. The probability of dying from an opioid overdose, according to the report, is one in 96. The chances of dying in a vehicle crash? One in 103.Most Americans are still most likely to die of natural causes, chiefly heart disease (a one in six chance) or cancer (one in seven). But the report shows, in stark numbers, that everyday events — such as falling down — might be effectively more dangerous than rare ones, such as getting hit by lightning.“Human beings, we just are not good at estimating our own risk,” said Ken Kolosh, manager of statistics at the National Safety Council, who oversaw the report. “We tend to fixate or focus on the rare, startling event, like a plane crash or a major flood or a natural disaster, but in reality, when you look at the numbers, the everyday risks that we face and have become so accustomed to form a much greater hazard.”Medicine has improved our ability to combat fatal illnesses. But while deaths from natural causes have gone down, deaths from preventable causes have ticked up, and the result is that Americans’ life expectancy has actually decreased over the past few years, Mr. Kolosh said.Here’s a look at the trends, and the top 10 causes of preventable deaths.The total number of deaths from opioid overdoses first surpassed the total number of deaths from vehicle crashes years ago. But the report found that 2017 was the first year in which accidental opioid deaths exceeded the number of accidental vehicle crashes. (Intentional overdoses or vehicle crashes were counted as suicides.)“Something that was a nonissue 30 years ago now looms as this incredible monster of an issue,” Mr. Kolosh said. Overdoses of fentanyl, a synthetic opioid, have been driving the increase, according to data on opioid deaths from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Car crashes continue to be a leading cause of preventable death, with pedestrians accounting for a bigger proportion of the fatalities, especially in urban areas. While Mr. Kolosh said the reasons behind the increase have not been thoroughly studied, distracted driving is widely considered to be a factor. When it comes to deadly car crashes, the report made a notable finding: About half of the people who died in the crashes studied were not wearing seatbelts.The probability of dying in a fall increased to one in 114. Mr. Kolosh attributed the uptick to the fact that more older adults are reporting falls. Some of them at first might not seem particularly serious.“They’re slipping or tripping in their bathrooms, or in their kitchens,” Mr. Kolosh said. But researchers are finding that even some of these minor falls may lead to hospitalization and a chain of events that may then result in death.Among the ways to prevent falls, according to the CDC: Exercise that focuses on strength, flexibility and balance.Heart disease: one in sixCancer: one in sevenLower respiratory disease: one in 27Suicide: one in 88Opioid overdose: one in 96Car crash: one in 103Fall: one in 114Gun assault: one in 285Pedestrian incident: one in 556Motorcycle crash: 1 in 858AdvertisementSupported byTrilobitesNew genetic analysis shows that an underground parasitic mold in Michigan is about 2,500 years old and has a low mutation rate. By JoAnna KleinThe scientists first reported finding it in 1992: a giant mushroom that weighed as much as a blue whale and sprawled across more than 30 acres of forest in Michigan’s upper peninsula. It wasn’t some Alice-in-Wonderland-type toadstool but a 1,500-year-old parasitic mold, with growing tentacles that foraged beneath the soil for roots and decaying wood to devour.Nearly 30 years later, the same scientists — using new technology for genetic analysis — wanted to know whether they had properly measured this unusual example of fungal life.“We made this outlandish prediction that the fungus is more than 1,000 years old,” said James Anderson, now a retired mycologist and emeritus professor at the University of Toronto. “And so an obvious outcome of that, is after three decades, it ought still be there, and if not, we’d have some explaining to do.”Recently they published what they uncovered in Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences. Their original humongous fungus, Armillaria gallica, is even older and bigger than first estimated: the 2,500-year-old parasite spreads across 180 acres of forest. And its genome harbors a mysterious survival strategy: an extremely low mutation rate.From 2015 through 2017, Dr. Anderson and his colleagues tested soil from nearly 250 sites on the peninsula. They connected dots on a forest-wide canvas and painted an impressionist portrait of this monster beneath the dirt.And it had some surprising features.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]First, it covered more space than first measured.Second, based on observations of how much it grew over a season, the scientists figured the fungus had to be 1,000 years older than they had originally estimated.And when they began considering that age against their genetic analysis, something seemed strange.As an organism grows and cells start splitting and copying DNA during mitosis — which is how they make new, identical body cells — you expect to see mutations emerge in copies that are passed on from one generation to the next. But this old beast harbored only about 160 mutations, orders of magnitude lower than expected.More than two millenniums was plenty of time for cells to divide, copy and paste their DNA and send it — mistakes and all — from one generation to the next. But to get so few mutations, the fungus must have had very few cell divisions, which is crazy for a giant fungus made of microscopic cells. The researchers couldn’t measure how many cell divisions separate the bits of fungus spanning the length of nine football fields side-by-side, and so they couldn’t measure the mutation rate directly. It should have been huge, but it wasn’t.“I think it’s a really interesting result with cutting edge technology, and it opens up new questions about how organisms can remain stable over that length of time,” said Tom Bruns, a fungal ecologist at the University of California, Berkeley who reviewed the study.But he and Dr. Anderson agree that it’s still unclear how the fungus genome ended up this way.Their paper offers some speculation. The infecting tips of the fungi’s rhizomes could have low rates of cell division. Or the fungus could be really good at repairing damage inside its cells, passing healthy traits onto the next generation. Even more bizarrely, the cells may be selective about which copies of DNA they send on to the next generation. Maybe it’s a combination of these factors — or something else entirely, Dr. Anderson said.Dr. Bruns said it was also possible that the analysis missed some mutations. When they do show up within a big pool of cells, they’re so rare, they’re presumed to be errors.But if this extremely low mutation rate is indeed the case — and it seems to be, according to Dr. Bruns, it poses other interesting questions.How widespread among fungi and other life is this low mutation rate? What can it tell us about cancer, which seems to be on the opposite end of the genetic stability spectrum? And if this thing is so good at living, who wins in an apocalypse: the cockroach or Armillaria?AdvertisementSupported byBy Frank LitskyJohnny (Lam) Jones, a former Olympic gold medal sprinter and swift-footed football star at the University of Texas who never lived up to his promise as a football professional with the Jets, died on Friday. He was 60.His death was announced by the university, which said it came “after a lengthy battle with cancer.” Texas news organizations said he died in a hospital in Round Rock, Tex., north of Austin.Jones learned that he had multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, in 2005. Because he did not have health insurance, former Texas teammates raised money for his medical costs.Jones was phenomenon at his central Texas high school, in the city of Lampasas, running world-class times of 9.21 seconds for 100 yards and 10.14 for 100 meters.After graduating, he competed that summer in the 1976 Montreal Olympics, finishing sixth in the 100 meters and winning a gold medal running the second leg of the United States 4x100-meter relay team.He then enrolled at Texas, where his speed landed him on both the track and football teams. He would go on to become a record-setting All-American sprinter for the university.In his freshman year he ran in the same backfield as another Johnny Jones. To distinguish the two, Coach Darrell Royal gave one the nickname Lam, for Jones’s hometown, and the other the nickname Ham, because that Jones came from Hamlin, Tex.Lam Jones, at 5 feet 11 and 190 pounds, was a wide receiver in his last three years as a Longhorn, 1977-79, and an All-American in his senior year. He scored eight touchdowns of 45 yards or more at Texas and was chosen the team’s most valuable player in 1978.In the 1980 National Football League draft, the Jets traded two first-round picks to be able to move up and make Jones their first pick (and the draft’s second choice overall). He signed for $2.1 million over six years (the equivalent of $6.8 million today); it was pro football’s first million-dollar contract.But his pro career was an injury-ridden disappointment. In his first season in New York, he caught 25 passes but dropped 18. In his second season, his main job was to run in plays from the Jets’ offensive coordinator, Joe Walton, to the quarterback, Richard Todd. The New York Times sports columnist Dave Anderson called him “the Jets’ millionaire messenger.”There were a few highlights for Jones that season, however, including catching a 47-yard touchdown pass from Todd in a playoff-clinching 28-3 victory over the Green Bay Packers at Shea Stadium in New York. (The Jets, in the playoffs for the first time in 12 years, went on to lose to the Buffalo Bills in a wild-card game the next week.)In five seasons (1980-84) with the Jets, Jones suffered a broken collarbone, a pulled hamstring and a torn finger tendon. He spent 1985 and 1986 on the Jets’ injured reserve list. The next year, the Jets traded him to the San Francisco 49ers.“I know how they remember me in New York: I’m the guy they blew the draft pick on,” Jones told The Daily News in 2005. “That’s O.K. I didn’t live up to their expectations, but I didn’t live up to my own expectations, either.”He did worse in San Francisco: The 49ers promptly waived him in training camp. He then joined the Dallas Cowboys, who dropped him after he missed a morning meeting because, the team said, he had been drinking and had overslept.Indeed, he told The News that he had struggled with alcohol and cocaine addictions both during his playing days and afterward.As a pro, Jones caught 138 passes for 2,322 yards and 13 touchdowns. His best season was in 1983, with 43 catches, 734 yards and four touchdowns.“Games and challenges never scared Johnny,” Bill Little, an assistant athletic director at Texas, recalled on a Texas football website in 2004. “People did. Folks thought he was just extremely shy and sometimes rude. Years later, they would diagnose the condition he had as social anxiety disorder.”In 1988, his playing days over and living again in Texas, Jones served a month in jail after pleading guilty to indecency with a child, a 12-year-old girl. The episode was a turning point, he later said, compelling him to seek treatment for his addictions.“I needed to get my personal life in order,” he was quoted as saying. “I came back to live in the real world.”He sold cars and running tracks, made motivational speeches to high school athletes and was active with the Texas Special Olympics.In 1979, Jones donated his Olympic gold medal to the Special Olympics. Years later, he explained why: “I’d never seen anyone stop in a race and help someone who had fallen get up.”John Wesley Jones II was born on April 4, 1958, in Lawton, Okla., to John W. Jones and Mary Jones Dillon. His father was an Army sergeant who was later transferred to Texas.Lam Jones was married and divorced three times. There was no immediate information available about survivors.Jones was philosophical about the up-and-down course his life had taken. He was quoted by Bill Little on the Texas website: “I got to run in the Olympics, got a great education and played for the University of Texas and played for the New York Jets.”AdvertisementSupported byEDITORS’ NOTEThe Common Sense column on Dec. 19 about Les Moonves, the ousted chief executive of CBS, and his rights under his termination agreement to sue the broadcast company for breach of contract, included remarks from an interview published in December in Agenda, an industry publication, that were attributed to Mr. Moonves. The validity of the Agenda interview has since been called into question. On Thursday, Agenda removed Mr. Moonves’s comments and published an editor’s note that stated, in part, that a representative for Mr. Moonves issued a statement denying that Mr. Moonves spoke with reporters from Agenda. The thrust of the column — that CBS is obliged to pay Mr. Moonves’s legal bills should he decide to sue the company — is accurate and unchanged, but the excerpted comments from the Agenda article have been removed from the online version of the column and an accompanying picture caption.CORRECTIONS: January 12, 2019INTERNATIONALAn article on Thursday about a government crackdown on skin-bleaching products in Rwanda paraphrased incorrectly comments by Dr. Carlos Charles. While he said that hydroquinone can cause a rash or ochronosis when used in high concentrations, he did not say that hydroquinone can increase the risk of cancer. (Past studies have shown some evidence of carcinogenic activity in rodents exposed to hydroquinone, but the substance has not been proven to increase the risk of cancer in humans.)NATIONALAn article on Thursday about the E.P.A.’s shutdown furlough of most inspection personnel described incorrectly Angela McFadden’s role at the Environmental Protection Agency. She is an environmental engineer who works for an agency program that oversees state-issued permits for the discharge of pollution in rivers and streams; she is not an inspector of water sites. The article also misquoted Ms. McFadden in her comments about her work at the E.P.A. While Ms. McFadden said, “I always find violations,” she did not go on to say, “even if it’s not things that are illegal.” The article also suggested that problems with chlorine levels in water are especially common in rural West Virginia. That is not the case.BUSINESSAn article on Friday about a settlement that could cost Fiat Chrysler more than $800 million referred incorrectly to the status of the company’s production of diesel-powered vehicles. After a halt in the 2017 model year for regulatory reasons, the company resumed making diesel versions of the Jeep Grand Cherokee and the Ram 1500 pickup; its diesel era has not ended. The error was repeated in a headline.SPORTSAn article on Friday about Joseph C. Tsai’s planned acquisition of the Liberty, a W.N.B.A. team, misidentified one of the three original W.N.B.A. teams still in existence. The Phoenix Mercury are one of the three teams; the Washington Mystics are not.SCIENCE TIMES An article on Friday about fast radio bursts misstated the institutions involved in the Chime study. Several Canadian universities participated, but Harvard did not.OBITUARIESAn obituary by The Associated Press on Friday about Samuel Snipes, a lawyer who represented the first black family to move into the all-white development of Levittown, Pa., misstated the number of years he had practiced law in Yardley, Pa. It was 60, not 50.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn Kenny“The Last,” written and directed by Jeff Lipsky, begins on the first day of Rosh Hashana. In a park, a close-knit family performs a prayer ritual. Two characters in their early 30s, Josh (AJ Cedeño) and Olivia (Jill Durso), are soon to be married. Josh is a Modern Orthodox Jew, and Olivia has converted from Catholicism to Judaism. Josh’s father, Harry, is a sardonic agnostic. Claire, Josh’s great-grandmother, stays mostly silent but is clearly full of affection.After the marriage, Claire meets Josh and Olivia on a beach outing and makes a startling confession. She initiates it indirectly, by showing them photos that she’s been holding in a safe deposit box. It’s an odd place to keep one’s past, but Claire has very good reason to have hidden hers.Not only is the beloved matriarch not a Jew, she was herself a member of the Nazi Party in World War II Germany.Claire, who remains an anti-Semite but nevertheless also continues to insist that she loves her Jewish children, has brain cancer. She wishes to travel out of New York for an assisted suicide. Some of her family members believe her life deserves a different resolution: They’d like to see her make restitution for her deceptions.This is not a thoroughly polished movie. Its look has a high-end video sheen that, combined with the mostly flat lighting, is somehow more neutral than what the material warrants. The sound mixing is odd, too. There’s a scene in which Olivia speaks to Josh on a cellphone, and he sounds as if he’s standing directly next to her.Still: the harrowing outlandishness of the dramatic situation is almost sufficient to emotionally concuss the viewer. And the movie is quite accomplished in the most important respects. Its peculiar rhythms, in which certain characters conduct nearly uninterrupted monologues of over 10 minutes, seem entirely deliberate, as does the sometimes plain affect of the performers.As the impossible Claire, the longtime character actor Rebecca Schull (a 90-year-old playing 92) is spectacular. Her character is lucid in her awfulness, and she almost never shuts up, relating endless anecdotes that don’t just force her family to face awful truths, but rub their noses in them. The movie’s finale is both satisfying and shame-inducing about their situation, which is wholly apt.Movie data powered by IMDb.comAdvertisementSupported byNo RegretsVictoria Beckham hosted a dinner for a Sotheby’s auction. A benefit jazz concert in honor of Michael Brecker.11 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Ben Widdicombe“I have to say, it’s very posh,” Victoria Beckham said in a second-floor dining room at the Frick Collection, where windows overlooking Central Park were punctuated by gilt-framed oil paintings.The dinner party of 30, which included art-world professionals, junior varsity billionaires and foreign royals, held its breath. Had the artist formerly known as Posh Spice, routinely caricatured by British tabloids as a humorless mannequin, just made a self-aware joke?“It’s a very posh dinner that we’re having here tonight,” Ms. Beckham repeated, giving the room permission to laugh.Ms. Beckham paid a whistle-stop visit to New York City last Thursday to promote her fashion line, a collaboration with Reebok and a Sotheby’s auction of old masters by female artists. Marketed as “The Female Triumphant,” the auction contains 21 works painted by 14 women between the 16th and 19th centuries, with pre-sale estimates of up to $6 million.A pop star turned fashion designer may seem like an unlikely figurehead for a sale of old masters. But as in Titian’s 1545 masterpiece “The Descent of the Holy Ghost,” Ms. Beckham’s luminous celebrity cast its glow both at Sotheby’s galleries during a V.I.P. preview and the intimate dinner that followed.“Myself and David, we don’t claim to know an enormous amount about art,” Ms. Beckham said, referring, of course, to David Beckham, her footballer husband. “But when I first came to the Frick a few years ago, I fell in love with the old masters. And then I got introduced to the team at Sotheby’s, so I’ve been learning more.”Dining on potatoes dauphinois and tough pucks of beef were Xavier Salomon, the Frick’s chief curator; Aimee Ng, an associate curator; Mario Sorrenti, the fashion photographer; Prince Pavlos and Princess Marie-Chantal of Greece; and Larry and Toby Milstein, the young philanthropists and séance enthusiasts.Casey Kohlberg, a young producer of short films, said she had been a fan of Ms. Beckham’s since her pop music days, and owned several items from her fashion line. She bonded with a table mate, Melissa Jacobs, about role-playing the Spice Girls with their friends in middle school.And which one of the group had they portrayed?The two young women declined to answer, but each stole a look at the woman sitting at the head of the table.There was a moment, at Jazz at Lincoln Center on Monday night, when music made the world’s problems go away.Around 500 well-heeled New Yorkers paid up to $10,000 each to attend the Nearness of You concert in honor of the saxophonist Michael Brecker, who died in 2007. The overclass guests included Len Blavatnik, a bare-knuckled mogul valued by Forbes at $16.5 billion; Leon Black, a private equity pooh-bah; Jo Carole Lauder, wife of Ronald Lauder; and Charles Rockefeller. They raised more than $1.3 million for cancer research at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center.Bernie Williams, an accomplished jazz musician and a 16-year veteran of the New York Yankees, opened the show with a sublime arrangement of “Take Me Out to the Ball Game.”For the three minutes Mr. Williams played, the big-screen view of Midtown Manhattan through the floor-to-ceiling windows acquired the magic of a Woody Allen movie (before #MeToo).Traffic on Central Park South became intertwined rivers of diamonds and rubies, flowing in opposite directions. The statue of Christopher Columbus straightened its back. Even an ugly construction elevator, lifting and dropping against the growing bones of a new ivory tower on West 57th Street, borrowed the lilting grace of a conductor’s wrist.When it was over, and the room was mute with awe, the host Padma Lakshmi said: “That was the most beautiful version of the song I ever heard.”Then Hugh Jackman took the stage in a tight sweater, and the audience snapped back to attention.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Playing migrants for laughs in a speech to lobbyists and donors, President Donald Trump characterized people trying to get into the U.S. as a horde of beefy men who fake hard-luck stories so softies in the immigration system will let them in.His shtick caused plenty of amusement at the Republican Jewish Coalition event Saturday but it was a far cry from the reality of the masses at the border.The speech capped a week of unreal political rhetoric as Trump retreated on two broad fronts, the border and health care, and offered tortured explanations for doing so. He also got his family history wrong and drew a link between wind power and cancer that has not been proved.Here's a look back:IMMIGRATION:TRUMP, describing asylum seekers as "people that look like they should be fighting for the UFC (Ultimate Fighting Championship). They read a little page given by lawyers that are all over the place," coaching them to say "I am very fearful for my life. I am very worried that I will be accosted if I'm sent back home." Trump then mimics U.S. officials: "Oh, give him asylum. He's afraid. He's afraid." And he adds: "We don't love the fact that he's got tattoos on his face. That's not a good sign." — speech Saturday to the lobbying group.THE FACTS: Figures from his own administration tell a different story than Trump's mocking tale. Those coming are increasingly families and children. Among them are thousands who get a chance for a life in America because they make a compelling case that they risk persecution in their home countries.Last month, Homeland Security's immigration statistics office released its latest annual report on the flow of asylum seekers and refugees, covering 2017. Among those who came from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras and applied for asylum at the border, 56 percent were unaccompanied children. The percentage was the same the year before and higher in 2015.Altogether, Homeland Security granted the asylum applications of more than 26,500 people in 2017. Almost one-third were children. Nearly half were women. Close to two-thirds were married.Additionally, the Justice Department granted asylum to more than 10,500 people who were already in the country and made their case for refuge in their deportation hearings.___TRUMP: "If they put one foot on our territory, if they start climbing a fence and they're on the Mexico side, welcome to the United States. Think of it. It's the craziest thing." — speech Saturday.THE FACTS: It's not that simple. What is lost in Trump's rhetoric is that it is legal to come to the border and ask for asylum. As for those who sneak illegally into the U.S. and get caught, they, too, are entitled to apply for asylum.As the Homeland Security report states: "Generally, any foreign national present in the United States or arriving at a POE (port of entry) may seek asylum regardless of immigration status."Whether they ask at the border or after sneaking into the U.S., most don't get it.___TRUMP, on why he is pulling back on sealing the U.S.-Mexico border: "Because Mexico has been absolutely terrific for the last four days. They're apprehending everybody. Yesterday they apprehended 1,400 people. The day before was 1,000. And if they apprehend people at their southern border where they don't have to walk through, that's a big home run. We can handle it from there. It's really good." — remarks to reporters Friday.TRUMP: "Before that they never did anything." — remarks to reporters Thursday.THE FACTS: Trump is describing a Mexican crackdown on Central American migrants that has not materialized. He's also wrong in saying that Mexico did nothing about the problem until he threatened to close the border.Mexico markedly tightened migration controls during the Obama administration. Mexico also detained more than 30,000 foreigners in the first three months of this year, before Trump accused Mexican officials of doing "NOTHING."Mexico reports that its interception and detention of migrants from the south are "about average" in recent months. Over the first three days of April, it apprehended 1,259 foreigners — not 1,000 or more a day, as Trump claimed."There is no very substantive change," said Mexico's foreign secretary, Marcelo Ebrard. "I don't know what (Trump) was referring to."Ebrard said: "What Mexico is doing as far as the review of the southern border — well, it's the same thing it has been doing."___TRUMP: "The Flores decision is a disaster, I have to tell you. Judge Flores, whoever you may be, that decision is a disaster for our country, a disaster." — remarks at a meeting with local officials in Southern California on Friday.THE FACTS: There's no Judge Flores involved. Jenny Flores was 15-year-old native of El Salvador who was held in what her advocates said were substandard conditions in the 1980s, contending she was strip-searched in custody and housed with male adults. They launched a class-action lawsuit on behalf of migrant children in the country illegally. Her mother was a housekeeper in the U.S. who feared deportation if she picked up her daughter.The case worked its way to the Supreme Court, which sided with the government and against the girl's advocates. But the case gave rise to an agreement in 1997 setting conditions for the detention of migrant children and the codifying of those conditions in law a decade later. It generally bars the government from keeping children in immigration detention for more than 20 days and guides how they are to be treated.___HEALTH CARETRUMP: "This will be a great campaign issue. I never asked Mitch McConnell for a vote before the Election as has been incorrectly reported (as usual) in the @nytimes, but only after the Election when we take back the House etc." — tweet Wednesday.THE FACTS: That's misleading at best.A week earlier, Trump stirred expectations of an ambitious health care effort when he said that if the Supreme Court strikes down "Obamacare," ''we will have a plan that's far better." He promised "the Republican Party will become the party of great health care."But Trump soon found that the party in Congress had no appetite for yet another attempt to replace President Barack Obama's health law in the near future — nor does it have a plan."I made it clear to him that we were not going to be doing that in the Senate," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., told reporters Tuesday, describing their conversation a day earlier. "He did say, as he later tweeted, that he accepted that and that he would be developing a plan that he would take to the American people during the 2020 campaign."So Trump backed down and postponed any replacement until after an election more than 18 months away.McConnell explained to Trump that senators are open to tackling specific aspects of health care — namely, trying to lower prescription drug prices, according to a person who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss Monday's private call between the two. But Trump's promised big, new health care bill wasn't going happen with Democrats running the House.Trump told McConnell he "accepted" the situation and "would be developing a plan that he would take to the American people during the 2020 campaign," according to that person. That night, Trump tweeted as much.___TRUMP: "Republicans will always support pre-existing conditions!" — tweet Wednesday.MICK MULVANEY, acting White House chief of staff: "Every single plan that this White House has ever put forward since Donald Trump was elected covered pre-existing conditions. Every single plan that Republicans in the House voted on in the previous Congress covered pre-existing conditions. Every single plan considered by the Senate covers pre-existing conditions. The debate about pre-existing conditions is over. Both parties support them and anyone telling you anything different is lying to you for political gain." — interview March 31 on ABC's "This Week."THE FACTS: Trump and his chief of staff's sweeping statements about the GOP commitment to protect people with pre-existing medical conditions are misleading. The Republican health insurance proposals would not have protected those patients as broadly as the Obama-era law and could have led to significantly higher rates or gaps in coverage for people with chronic illnesses.The Obama health law requires insurers to take all applicants, regardless of medical history, and patients with health problems pay the same standard premiums as healthy ones. It also requires standard benefits such as pregnancy, maternity and newborn care and mental health treatment. The trade-off was that the law also mandated that everyone have insurance, including healthy people, whose premiums helped insurers cover the costs of the very sick.The GOP health overhaul plans in Congress eliminated the mandate that everyone have insurance and sought to protect people with pre-existing conditions to a degree. But the Republican legislation would have given states leeway to vary the premiums that insurers charge based on health and other factors. That might make coverage unaffordable for people with serious or pre-existing health conditions.For instance, the Republican plans would have allowed insurers to charge older people at a 5-to-1 ratio compared with young people, higher than the law's 3-to-1 ratio, and given states authority to allow insurers to use health status as a factor in setting premiums for people who have had a break in coverage and are trying to get a new individual policy.The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office found the GOP plans over time would raise premiums for people with health problems because healthy people would be more likely to take their chances going uninsured.___WIND POWERTRUMP: "If you have a windmill anywhere near your house, congratulations. Your house just went down 75% of value. And they say the noise causes cancer." — remarks at Republican fundraising dinner Tuesday.THE FACTS: The sound from wind farms has not been proved to cause cancer.Trump has had it out for wind power since turbines were proposed off the coast of Scotland within sight of his golf resort near Aberdeen . He unsuccessfully fought the project. He has ascribed a variety of evils to wind power over the years, usually with scant evidence, while praising coal, a well-documented cause of health problems."The American Cancer Society is unaware of any credible evidence linking the noise from windmills to cancer," the organization said after Trump's latest remarks.While some recesses of the internet have long tried to sound alarms about "wind turbine syndrome," several studies have found no evidence of serious health issues.Trump actually misidentified his target. Wind turbines produce energy. Windmills mill grain and flummox Don Quixote .___PUERTO RICOTRUMP: "Puerto Rico got 91 Billion Dollars for the hurricane, more money than has ever been gotten for a hurricane before." — tweet Tuesday.HOGAN GIDLEY, White House spokesman: "The fact is, they have received more money than any state or territory in history for a rebuild." — interview Tuesday with MSNBC.THE FACTS: The money Puerto Rico has received for hurricane relief is nowhere close to $91 billion. Nor is the amount provided greater than for any other hurricane that has struck the U.S.According to the White House, Trump's $91 billion estimate includes about $50 billion in expected future disaster disbursements that could span decades, along with $41 billion already approved. But actual aid to Puerto Rico has flowed more slowly from federal coffers, about $11 billion so far.Even if the $91 billion figure eventually comes to fruition, it would not be the most ever provided for hurricane rebuilding efforts. Hurricane Katrina, which hit Louisiana and other Gulf Coast states in 2005, has cost the U.S government more than $120 billion.___TRUMP, on Puerto Rico: "The pols are grossly incompetent, spend the money foolishly or corruptly, & only take from USA." — tweet Tuesday.THE FACTS: Trump appears to suggest Puerto Rico is not part of the U.S. as he criticizes its territorial government for taking "from USA." He does not criticize other Americans for taking "from USA."Gidley, speaking on MSNBC, called the notion that Trump was referring to Puerto Ricans as noncitizens "absolutely ridiculous." But in the same interview Gidley had referred to Puerto Rico as "that country." When pressed about his wording, Gidley said it was a mistake and he meant to say "territory."Puerto Ricans are Americans.___TRUMP'S FATHERTRUMP, arguing that Germany should spend more on its own military budget: "I have great respect for Angela, and I have great respect for the country," he said, referring to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. "My father is German, right, was German, and born in a very wonderful place in Germany, and so I have a great feeling for Germany, but they're not paying what they should be paying." — remarks Tuesday with NATO's secretary general.THE FACTS: Trump is confusing his father and grandfather.Trump's father, Fred, was born in New York City. The president's grandfather, Friedrich, was born in Germany.Friedrich Trump immigrated to the U.S. in 1885 at the age of 16, arriving in New York before moving to the western parts of the U.S.Trump has messed up his family history in this way several times. Last year, he said both his parents were born in what became the European Union. Only his Scottish mother was.___VOTER TURNOUTDEMOCRAT BETO O'ROURKE: "The state saw young voter turnout up 500% over the last midterm election." — various campaign events in recent weeks.THE FACTS: Voter turnout by people under 30 did not jump nearly that much last year. Texas did see a large increase in those young voters, though.More than 1 million young voters cast a ballot in the 2018 midterm election, a 234% increase from the 2014 midterm elections, according to voting data from the Texas secretary of state's office.Initial reports suggested young voter turnout increased as much as 508% during early voting in Texas when compared with early voting in 2014, according to data released by a political consulting firm a week before the 2018 election.O'Rourke spokesman Chris Evans acknowledged his candidate used those figures without making the distinction that they represent an incomplete portion of early votes cast — not total turnout in the election.Overall, voter turnout in the 2018 midterm election increased 77% in Texas over 2014 totals.___CENSUSTRUMP: "Can you believe that the Radical Left Democrats want to do our new and very important Census Report without the all important Citizenship Question. Report would be meaningless and a waste of the $Billions (ridiculous) that it costs to put together!" — tweet Monday.THE FACTS: Trump's disdain for conducting the once-a-decade census without a citizenship question is not shared by his own Census Bureau researchers. Nor is it consistent with the many operations of government and business that make billions of dollars in spending decisions as well as policy decisions based on the most accurate possible count of the U.S. population.According to January 2018 calculations by the Census Bureau, adding a citizenship question to the decennial census form would cause lower response rates among noncitizens, leading to an increased cost to the government of at least $27.5 million for additional phone calls, visits to the home and other follow-up efforts to reach them. The Constitution requires a count every 10 years of "the whole number of persons in each state," long understood to include all residents of the U.S.The count goes to the heart of the U.S. political system. It's used to determine the number of seats each state has in the House and how the electoral votes that decide presidential elections are distributed. Civil rights groups and states with higher shares of immigrant populations such as California and New York cite a significant harm to the political rights of minority groups if a citizenship question in the decennial census dissuades immigrants from participating, resulting in diminished representation in the U.S. House.The census also shapes how 300 federal programs distribute more than $800 billion a year to local communities, according to an analysis by the GW Institute of Public Policy at George Washington University. Communities and businesses depend on it, as well, in deciding where to build schools, hospitals, job training centers, grocery stores and more.The GW institute's analysis of the effects of an undercount on five programs administered by the Health and Human Services Department, for instance, found that 37 states lost a median of $1,091 in the 2015 budget year for each person missed in the 2010 census.___Associated Press writers Colleen Long, Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, Michael Biesecker, Jill Colvin, Andrew Taylor and Alan Fram in Washington, Amanda Seitz in Chicago, Will Weissert in Austin, Texas, and Mark Stevenson in Mexico City contributed to this report.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBOSTON — The founder of Insys Therapeutics Inc put profits over patient safety by bribing doctors to prescribe an addictive fentanyl spray, fueling the U.S. opioid epidemic, a federal prosecutor said on Thursday at the end of a landmark trial.John Kapoor, the drugmaker's former chairman, and four colleagues are the first executives of a painkiller manufacturer to face trial for conduct that authorities say was tied to a drug abuse epidemic that kills tens of thousands of Americans each year.Kapoor was arrested in 2017 on the same day U.S. President Donald Trump declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency. In 2017, a record 47,600 people died of opioid-related overdoses, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Assistant U.S. Attorney Nathaniel Yeager told a federal jury in Boston in his closing argument that Kapoor sought to eliminate the risk of Insys failing after investing millions of dollars in founding it by bribing doctors to prescribe the company's pain drug Subsys.Yaeger said Chandler, Arizona-based Insys paid doctors to act as speakers at "bogus" events ostensibly meant to educate clinicians about Subsys, which contains fentanyl, a highly potent opioid."They eliminated that risk and transferred it to the patients who were prescribed that drug," Yeager said. "Profits over patients."Doctors involved included those who ran "pill mills" and were under investigation, Yeager said. He said in exchange for money, doctors helped Insys exploit their patients, some of whom became addicted to Subsys, a drug meant only for treating cancer pain.He said Kapoor also sought to defraud insurers into paying for Subsys and carried out the scheme with the help of his co-defendants, former Insys executives and managers Michael Gurry, Richard Simon, Sunrise Lee and Joseph Rowan.But Beth Wilkinson, Kapoor's attorney, argued that he never engaged in a racketeering conspiracy. She said Kapoor believed in Subsys' promise and argued the patients who received it needed it to treat their pain. "He wanted anyone who needed this medication to get it," Wilkinson said.She argued the prosecution's star witnesses - former Insys Chief Executive Michael Babich and Alec Burlakoff, its ex-vice president of sales - lied about Kapoor's role with the hope of getting lenient sentences after pleading guilty.Wilkinson said prosecutors were ignoring those lies in hopes of convicting Kapoor.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

JAN. 11, 2019

People who lived in cluttered homes, particularly women, tended to have high levels of this hormone, a sign of stress:EstrogenProgesteroneCortisolThyroxineA large review of studies found that regular use of artificial sweeteners was tied to an increased risk of:Heart diseaseCancerKidney problemsThe review found no evidence of harmPeople who were told they carried a gene variant that curbed their appetites tended to respond to food in this way, even if they didn't carry the gene:They felt more full after eatingThey felt less full after eatingKnowing your DNA status did not affect appetiteAbout what percentage of teenagers are affected to some degree by acne?25 percent45 percent65 percent85 percentThis treatment, which freezes facial muscles, proved superior to placebo in warding off migraine headaches:AcupunctureAcupressureBotox injectionsProgressive muscle relaxationThis condition typically arises when a piece of hard stool becomes lodged in an outpouching in the intestinal wall:Inflammatory bowel diseaseDiverticulitisGastroenteritisVolvulusThis virus is even more harmful to the developing fetus than the Zika virus:CoronavirusInfluenza virusAdvertisementSupported byDeadly diseases that should be seen only in history books are showing up in our emergency rooms.By Brett P. Giroir, Robert R. Redfield and Jerome M. AdamsAdmiral Giroir is the assistant secretary for Health and Human Services. Dr. Redfield is the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Vice Admiral Adams is the surgeon general. Vaccinations save lives, protect our children and are one of our greatest public health achievements. As public health officials, our role is to advance the health of the American people. This must include championing vaccinations.Diseases like polio, measles, diphtheria and rubella were once common in the United States, afflicting hundreds of thousands of infants, children and adults, and killing thousands each year. Some older Americans may remember the fear associated with polio outbreaks and the era of iron lungs and leg braces — a time when swimming pools and movie theaters closed over concerns about the spread of the crippling disease. Others may recall the heartbreaking wave of rubella in the 1960s that resulted in thousands of newborn deaths, with thousands more born blind, deaf or with other lifelong disabilities.We cannot let America be faced with these fears again. For those of us who have treated critically ill children with vaccine-preventable diseases, we know firsthand the devastation to the child — and to the family and community — of a death, limb amputation or severe brain damage that could have been avoided by a simple vaccination.Modern vaccines are highly effective and safe, with most serious side effects being exceptionally rare — and much less serious than contracting the actual disease. But misinformation about vaccines is still widely reported, so we feel it is crucial to state clearly and unambiguously: Vaccines do not cause autism and they do not contain toxic chemicals. That fact was demonstrated again this week in a new study on MMR vaccination by Danish researchers. In part because vaccines have been so successful, clinicians practicing in the United States today may have never seen a patient with polio, or treated a child with measles or bacterial meningitis, and parents may not realize how severe and potentially life-threatening these diseases can be.Consider measles. The World Health Organization estimates that measles vaccination prevented more than 21 million deaths worldwide since 2000. Although routine childhood vaccination for measles remains high in the United States (greater than 91 percent for preschool children), localized dips in vaccination coverage have resulted in a recent resurgence of measles in parts of the country. A total of 17 measles outbreaks affecting more than 370 individuals have been confirmed in 2018 alone, and 10 states are already reporting cases this year. Unfortunately, many more communities are at risk for outbreaks because of areas with low vaccine coverage.Influenza continues to severely affect our families. In the last flu season of 2017-18, about 80,000 Americans died from the disease. Scores of them were children who had not been vaccinated. Yet, early season vaccination rates remain below 50 percent for both adults and children. The flu vaccine is the best way to avoid getting the disease, and those who do fall ill are less likely to develop severe flu symptoms that lead to hospitalization or death.The list goes on. In 2017, only 49 percent of American adolescents received all of the recommended doses of the HPV vaccine, which is the best way to protect both males and females from developing certain cancers — including cervical, anal, mouth and throat cancers. One in five teenagers — approximately 4.5 million people — have not received the vaccination for the contagious form of bacterial meningitis, even though the swift-moving disease can leave an otherwise healthy child facing amputation, organ failure or death within 24 hours of onset. And the nation is experiencing a multistate outbreak of hepatitis A, especially among people who use drugs or experience homelessness. Yet the disease — which can lead to liver failure and death — can be prevented with a safe and effective vaccine.We cannot be complacent. The recent measles outbreaks are a reminder that diseases that we might have thought had become rare in the United States are still infecting unvaccinated people, sometimes with dire consequences: Children with measles can develop fatal complications. These diseases should be seen only in history books — not in our emergency rooms.We are committed to countering the misinformation that fuels anti-vaccine sentiment among parents and legislators who are earnestly trying to protect their children and the public. Science that sits on the shelf has no value. We must take advantage of the lifesaving tools we have to protect our nation’s most vulnerable.Our children, and our children’s children, have the opportunity to grow up in a world that is free from polio, measles and other vaccine-preventable diseases. We must work together to make this a reality.Adm. Brett P. Giroir is the assistant secretary for Health and Human Services and the senior adviser for opioid policy. Robert R. Redfield is the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Vice Adm. Jerome M. Adams is the surgeon general. AdvertisementSupported bySugar substitutes offered no health benefits, but they didn’t do any harm, either, a review of studies found.By Nicholas BakalarArtificial sweeteners offer no health benefits, a large review of studies found. But it found no proof that they do any harm, either.Researchers looked at 35 observational studies and 21 controlled trials of nonsugar sweeteners in children and adults. Some compared intake of sweeteners with no intake; others compared lower with higher intakes.They found no convincing evidence that nonsugar sweeteners had any effect in adults on eating behavior, cancer, cardiovascular disease, kidney disease, mood, behavior or cognition. The study, in BMJ, did find a slight benefit in promoting weight loss and improving fasting blood glucose levels, but only in small studies and over short periods of time.Eight studies in children showed similar results. Some studies found weak evidence that children who used artificial sweeteners had larger increases in blood glucose levels than those who used sugar.AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders debate who would be the strongest contenders and discuss how Joe Biden and Beto O’Rourke each reached across party lines to a Republican.To the Editor:Re “May the Best Woman Win,” by Michelle Goldberg (column, Jan. 22):After the total disaster of Trumpism, America needs and deserves the empathy, compassion and fair-mindedness that only a woman can bring to the Oval Office. While I would vote for a ham sandwich over Donald Trump, 2020 and beyond will be the era of powerful women with governing experience and the patience and understanding it takes to lead the nation.Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand and most likely Amy Klobuchar are all capable candidates, and I expect there will be other women who will enter the fray. We are a long way off until the 2020 election, but I applaud the women who have thrown their hats into the ring now, as Americans need to get to know and evaluate their strengths and weaknesses and help choose the woman with the best chance of taking back the White House. The midterms in 2018 showed that women are on the move in American politics, and there is little doubt in my mind that the best woman will be our 46th president.Henry A. LowensteinNew YorkTo the Editor:While I wholeheartedly agree with Michelle Goldberg’s argument that it would be nothing short of poetic justice for President Trump to lose re-election in 2020 to a female Democrat, I worry that she is too optimistic about a female Democrat’s chances in a general election, even if she can get through the competitive Democratic primary.While none of the three female senators currently in the race — Senators Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand and Kamala Harris — have been in the public eye as long as Hillary Clinton was, it is still likely that they will be as thoroughly criticized by the right-wing media ecosystem as Mrs. Clinton was, given how focused right-wing media has always been on tearing down female Democrats. This is apparent in its continued obsession with Nancy Pelosi and its focus on its newest target, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.While I am energized by the recent successes of female political candidates in the 2018 midterm elections, I fear that it will be difficult to overcome the constant right-wing media torrent.Shalaka JoshiNew YorkTo the Editor:I’m hoping the 2020 Democratic primary will look like something the Republicans had in 2016: a large field of candidates that held multiple debates that allowed voters to compare candidates head to head. At this point, it’s best to ignore the prognosticators; anyone can fumble. We know this from past Joe Biden bids for the presidency.Four years ago Democrats saw the antithesis of democracy — a back-room, preordained front-runner whose critics were labeled either misogynists or de facto enablers of the G.O.P. Michael BuitrónLong Beach, Calif.To the Editor:“Democratic Pack Views O’Rourke as Lone Wolf” (front page, Jan. 20) portrays Beto O’Rourke as at best disloyal for complimenting but not endorsing a Democratic candidate in a Texas congressional race, while refusing to oppose Will Hurd, the Republican candidate. Mr. O’Rourke remained neutral in the race.The implicit argument was that Mr. Hurd should have been opposed simply because he was a Republican. Contrast this with Democrats’ criticisms of Republican House members and senators who blindly stick with President Trump, whatever he does, because he is a Republican.Frankly, I prefer a candidate who can recognize the possibility that candidates from both parties have merit to a candidate who feels that — for the sake of the party — he needs to support a party member regardless of merit.Lauri SteelLos Altos, Calif.To the Editor:Re “A $200,000 Speech by Biden Was Priceless to a Republican” (front page, Jan. 24):In this era of hyperpartisanship, it’s refreshing to read about former Vice President Joe Biden’s praise of Representative Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican, during last fall’s congressional campaign, for supporting legislation that provided hundreds of millions of dollars in federal support for cancer research.As a registered Democrat and a cancer survivor, I for one am gratified that Mr. Biden had the political courage and personal decency to publicly thank Mr. Upton for his strong support of this landmark bill. This is just the sort of leadership that our country desperately needs.Robert SachsBostonTo the Editor:We are missing the importance of Joe Biden’s appearing to support Fred Upton in his speech. Mr. Biden could have thanked Mr. Upton, and many others who supported Mr. Biden’s medical research bill, at the time the bill was passed and since then. But since we know Mr. Upton crafted a bill in 2017 to repeal Obamacare, we see in full view Mr. Biden’s lack of good judgment, which makes him a poor candidate to be president.If Mr. Upton’s bill to repeal Obamacare had succeeded, and if new cancer research offered new treatments and hope, millions of uninsured Americans would not have been able to receive the new, novel, wonderful care. Gail ShorrWilmette, Ill.The writer is a retired pediatrician.To the Editor:In every presidential race since at least 1980, the more “likable” candidate won. (Although I despise Donald Trump, I don’t claim that he’s less “likable” than Hillary Clinton.)We liberals have Elizabeth Warren, who thinks that she can somehow win the next likability contest, despite her already divisive reputation and easily stereotyped policy positions. Who else is vying or expected to be vying for the Democratic nomination? Other coastal liberals, of course: Senators Kamala Harris, Cory Booker and Kirsten Gillibrand.Sigh.Republicans — even those from the coasts — are more likable to the varied geography of America. Democrats, on the other hand, win only when they nominate someone from outside their Northeast and West Coast strongholds. Barack Obama was from Illinois. Bill Clinton was from Arkansas. Jimmy Carter was from Georgia. Their likability and appeal stretched beyond the coasts in a way that the current crop of potential candidates won’t.Senators Warren, Booker, Harris and Gillibrand won’t win, and they’ll draw Democratic resources and attention from someone who can. Here we go again.Jonathan CareyHoboken, N.J. To the Editor:Most of us with an ounce of sanity recognize that the current administration is a disaster. Our country needs a chief executive who can bring a steady hand to the tiller. Democrats, this is not the time for hope. It is the time for reason. It is the time to nominate someone who can win.The only candidate who can rescue us from the current national mayhem is Michael Bloomberg. Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker, Kamala Harris, Julián Castro, Tulsi Gabbard, etc. Get real. Come down to earth. You simply do not have the throw-weight to tackle Donald Trump. Joe Biden, you’re a good man. But you’re a two-time loser. Stop dreaming. AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin DraperFor the first time since he was charged last month with two counts of soliciting prostitution in Jupiter, Fla., Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, commented publicly on the matter, apologizing in vague terms.“I am truly sorry,” Kraft said in a statement released Saturday afternoon. “I know I have hurt and disappointed my family, my close friends, my co-workers, our fans and many others who rightfully hold me to a higher standard.”Kraft continued by mentioning his wife of nearly 50 years, Myra Kraft, who died in 2011 of ovarian cancer. “Throughout my life, I have always tried to do the right thing,” he said. “The last thing I would ever want to do is disrespect another human being. I have extraordinary respect for women; my morals and my soul were shaped by the most wonderful woman, the love of my life, who I was blessed to have as my partner for 50 years.”Kraft was charged with the two misdemeanor counts of soliciting prostitution last month, after the police said he twice visited the Orchids of Asia Day Spa and solicited sexual services. In the immediate aftermath, a spokesman for Kraft denied he had done anything illegal, and he has pleaded not guilty to the charges. Kraft has kept a low profile, but friends say he is tormented by what he has done.His statement came the day before N.F.L. owners were to begin arriving at the Arizona Biltmore in Phoenix for the league’s annual meeting, where owners and N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell are sure to be peppered with questions about Kraft.As the owners meet, Kraft’s legal case will continue. Prosecutors in Florida have offered Kraft, and the 24 other men who were similarly accused, a deal that would entail dropping the charges in exchange for a fine, community service and, crucially, admitting that if the case were to go to trial, prosecutors would win.So far, Kraft has declined to accept the deal. He has hired some of the top lawyers in the country, who have argued that the police mishandled the case and asked that evidence in the case be kept private.Kraft is scheduled to be arraigned in court on March 28, though he is not required to be present. He could also be subject to discipline from the N.F.L., which has wide latitude to punish anyone, including owners, for conduct detrimental to the league, even if he is not convicted of a crime.Email Kevin Draper at kevin.draper@nytimes.com or follow him on Twitter: @kevinmdraper.AdvertisementSupported byStreaming Movie ReviewBy Kyle TurnerWhen contemplating the subject of dying, Michael (Mark Duplass) can muster little else than “eh.” “Paddleton,” and its gestures toward hushed profundity, might evoke much the same reaction from audiences.Before receiving a cancer diagnosis, Michael spent the bulk of his time with his best friend, Andy (Ray Romano), doing puzzles, playing a squash-like game called “Paddleton,” and watching the same kung fu movie repeatedly. The diagnosis changes nothing and everything about their routine. The two men, who seem to have only each other, bristle at having to engage in small talk with anyone. And yet “Paddleton” is an aggressively gentle film.Well, for a film about assisted suicide.“Paddleton,” a Netflix original film, spends most of its time chronicling the aftermath of Michael’s diagnosis and his subsequent decision to end his life with Andy’s help. Alex Lehmann, who directed the movie, and Duplass, who wrote it with him, make a commendable effort in observing its characters’ tics in hyper-specific detail. So do Romano and Duplass, who as actors are clearly invested in trying to imbue this intimate friendship with a lived-in familiarity and mumbly warmth.The pace is leisurely, the humor likable (until it proves a liability), and its two lead characters are illustrated with generous precision.And yet for all that, the payoffs feel negligible. “Paddleton” is so keyed into its protagonists’ various idiosyncrasies that it seems hesitant to grapple with its own central tension. Too often, Andy’s anxiety about Michael’s situation is deflected with humor, which lands only like a pat on the back, never reveling in the absurdity.In the end, the film takes too long to take itself seriously, and as such it struggles to deliver on its ostensible promise: that two weird men with a close bond will meaningfully confront death and its implications — to themselves and to their friendship. Previous writing-directing work by Duplass with his brother, Jay (“Jeff Who Lives at Home”), could be quietly devastating. “Paddleton” is mostly just quiet.Movie data powered by IMDb.comPaddletonNot rated. Running time: 1 hour 29 minutes.AdvertisementSupported byIf you are concerned a loved one may have sepsis, seek care immediately, and ask the doctor, “Could it be sepsis?”By Roni Caryn RabinSepsis, a life-threatening response to infection, is a common cause of deaths in hospitals, according to a new report. The study looked at 568 people who had died in hospitals and whose average age was 70. More than half had sepsis, and it was the immediate cause of death for nearly 200 of them; another 100 had sepsis but didn’t die of it. Only 36 of the sepsis deaths might have been prevented with earlier antibiotic treatment or other measures, the researchers determined.Dr. Chanu Rhee, an infectious disease and critical care physician at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the study’s lead author, said that many hospital patients with sepsis are elderly, frail, suffering from multiple underlying diseases and often terminally ill, and they do not survive even when provided with timely and appropriate care.“Any preventable death from sepsis is a tragedy,” Dr. Rhee said, “but there is a perception that all sepsis deaths are preventable, and this study challenges that perception.” The study was published in JAMA Network Open. Between one million and three million Americans are diagnosed with sepsis each year, and 15 percent to 30 percent of them will die, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And though sepsis primarily affects people over 65, children are also susceptible; more than 42,000 children in the United States develop sepsis each year, leading to 4,400 deaths, according to one estimate.AdvertisementSupported byAsk WellImpaired smell is common, particularly in the elderly, but in about one in six people, no cause can be identified.By Richard Klasco, M.D.Q. I have completely lost my sense of smell and can taste only a few things. I have seen doctors and taken tests, but no answers. I know I’m not the only one with this problem. Any ideas?A. Humans are able to perceive an astounding one trillion odors. But our sense of smell is fragile.About a quarter of adults, and more than half of those over 80, have some degree of olfactory impairment. The sense of taste is often affected at the same time, as the neural pathways of smell and taste commingle in the brain.Having an impaired sense of smell may be more than a nuisance. Studies have linked a decreased sense of smell to a heightened risk for Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, multiple sclerosis and premature death.Common causes of a decreased sense of smell include nasal problems, such as deviated septum and nasal polyps; viruses, such as rhinovirus and Epstein-Barr virus; chronic sinusitis; head injury; and certain cancers. Environmental exposure to cigarette smoke, alcohol, air pollution and toxins further increase the risk. Yet, in about 16 percent of people, no cause can be identified.Eating nuts and fish has been associated with protection against smell impairment, as have exercise and use of cholesterol-lowering drugs and oral steroids. It is unknown, however, whether changing one’s dietary or exercise habits will improve the sense of smell.Medical evaluation typically begins with an otolaryngologist, an ear, nose and throat doctor who will use a standardized scratch-and-sniff test to assess any olfactory deficits. Laboratory tests of blood and nasal mucus and imaging studies, such as CT or M.R.I. scans, are often needed. In some cases, endoscopic surgery, a flexible camera inserted into the nose, may aid in diagnosis and provide therapeutic benefits. Treatment, of course, depends on the cause. When the cause is viral, the sense of smell usually returns with time, but steroid medications may hasten recovery. Patients with chronic sinusitis and nasal polyps may get relief from steroids and surgery. In select cases, monoclonal antibody medications may help.AdvertisementSupported byLetter 92By Damien CaveThe Australia Letter is a weekly newsletter from our Australia bureau chief. Sign up to get it by email.This week, we have a special treat: Karen Crouse, one of our sportswriters who was here for the Australian Open, spent time with Briony Lyle, the wife of Jarrod Lyle, one of Australia’s most beloved golfers, who died of cancer a few months ago.He was only 36. Here’s his New York Times obituary if you missed it.We’ve turned the newsletter over to Karen and Briony, for insights on sport and life. Tell us what you think at nytaustralia@nytimes.com.___Briony Lyle laughs when she thinks about it now, but in the days after her husband, Jarrod, died following a lengthy battle with leukemia, she wondered what she would do with herself. For nearly a decade, her days had revolved around Jarrod’s schedule, first as a professional golfer and, later as a second-and-third-time cancer patient.Jarrod’s death last August at age 36 unleashed a global outpouring of emotion and support from people whose lives he touched or who were touched by the story of a seemingly regular bloke who had absorbed life’s — and golf’s — bad breaks with grit and good cheer.At the time I marveled at how a group of athletes who tend to measure success so rigidly, who generally buy into the belief that they are what their scores say they are, rallied to give a farewell befitting a giant to Jarrod, a journeyman whose highest finish in 121 P.G.A. Tour starts was a tie for fourth.Curious to know what life was like for Briony after the elegies stopped, I followed the Australia Day migration of beachgoers to Torquay, the gateway to the Great Ocean Road, where Briony and Jarrod moved in 2012 and where, she said, Jarrod peacefully passed his final days.The half-year anniversary of Jarrod’s death was upon her, but that’s not why Briony saw reminders of her husband everywhere.The day before, an American, Bryson DeChambeau, had claimed a seven-stroke victory at the Dubai Desert Classic, a European Tour event. Briony has never met the 25-year-old DeChambeau, but at the P.G.A. Championship, held the week after Jarrod’s death, DeChambeau won a long-driving contest and donated the $25,000 winner’s check to an education fund set up for the Lyles’s young daughters, Lusi, 6, and Jemma, 2.Since then, Briony, who never really cared for golf, has been a huge fan of DeChambeau. She recently sent him a thank-you note, which began the same as hundreds of others that she had written over the past few months: “We may never meet, but what you did was so amazing, just to say thank you is not enough.”This week in the United States, the P.G.A. Tour is outside Phoenix, for a tournament known for its party atmosphere, huge crowds and stadium-style 16th hole.The par 3 has been the scene of nine aces, including one by Tiger Woods and another by Jarrod in what was perhaps the signature moment of his P.G.A. Tour career.It happened during the second round of the 2011 event, and Jarrod’s reaction was almost as memorable as a result. While the shot was airborne, he made the motion to sit with both hands as if his golf ball were a puppy at obedience school. After the ball bounced on the green and rolled in the cup, he pumped his arms multiple times, then windmilled his arms to churn the already raucous crowd of more than 25,000 into even more of a lather.Smiling ear to ear, he ran over to his caddie shouting, “You beauty,” only, in typical Jarrod fashion, with an expletive added for emphasis.Briony said Jarrod replayed the video of the shot and his reaction hundreds of times over the years.“He’d tell people not to believe all the views it has gotten because he’s been responsible for most of them,” she said. “People thought he was just being humble, but he was telling the truth.”She laughed.“He watched that video all the time. I can remember waking up to him giggling and I’d ask him what he was laughing at and he’d say, ‘I just watched the hole-in-one again.’”Golf did not captivate Briony, who was a high school classmate of Jarrod’s in their hometown, Shepparton, in northern Victoria. When they started dating a few years later, she attended his tournaments but recognized early on that she was going to need a diversion.“I couldn’t possibly spend my time walking aimlessly around golf courses pretending I was invested in every shot and every moment,” said Briony, who enrolled in classes in Melbourne to become a massage therapist. She accumulated her required training hours, she said, by setting up a massage table at tournaments and kneading the muscles of the caddies.She earned her certification in 2012, shortly before giving birth to the couple’s first daughter, Lusi. Another daughter, Jemma, arrived four years later. Around the time of Lusi’s birth, Jarrod learned that the leukemia he had battled successfully in high school had returned.He was off the P.G.A. Tour for more than two years, then came back and made 20 more starts. He had returned to Australia to play his home tour and try his hand at broadcasting when he found out in late 2017 that the leukemia had returned a third time.During his initial battle with the disease, Jarrod became acquainted with Challenge, a nonprofit dedicated to providing practical and personalized services to the families of cancer patients. The organization’s mascot is a duck named Leuk, and since Jarrod’s death people from all over the world have snatched up Leuk merchandise, everything from duck head covers to pins and ball markers.Next week top performers from the P.G.A. Tour of Australasia, the Australian Ladies Professional Golf, the European Tour and the Ladies European Tour will converge on Barwon Heads Golf Club, not far from Torquay, for the Vic Open. Briony will be there, selling Leuk the Duck merchandise to raise money for families dealing with cancer.“I have my moments — many, many moments — mostly nighttime where I can’t sleep because of things playing over in my mind,” Briony said. “But I’m able to grab on to this incredible thing that came out of what happened, there’s so much good that came out of it and I’m just so determined to draw attention to this cause because I’m not unique, unfortunately.”A bittersweet thing happened; she lost her golfer husband and found a calling that drew her deeper into golf.“After he died, I kept telling people over and over, my life tended to revolve around Jarrod either in illness or career and now my life continues to revolve around him,” she said. “That’s the legacy.”— Karen Crouse___• As a Reporter, She Wrote About Business. As a Novelist, She Writes About Murder. The novelist Jane Harper leans on the harsh Australian environment to tell stories of murder and survival. She talks about her new book, “The Lost Man,” and how years as a journalist taught her about writing under pressure.• New Zealand Vowed 100,000 New Homes to Ease Crunch. So Far It Has Built 47. A plan to ease New Zealand’s housing crisis has yet to live up to its promises, and new figures show homes are further out of reach than in the United States, Britain and Australia.• What Happened to Australia’s Waterfront Hotel Restaurants? Our restaurant critic Besha Rodell gets nostalgic over Australia’s elegant and dramatic waterfront institutions.• ‘It’s Entirely Up to Me’: Indigenous Australians Find Empowerment in Start-Ups. More Aboriginal Australians are owning businesses — and breaking stereotypes along the way. As one of these entrepreneurs, Marsha Uppill, put it, “We’re not just good sports people — we’re good science people, we’re tech people.”• The Most Famous Man at the Australian Open Is Not Who You Think. Tennis champion, radio host, disability advocate, festival organizer, author — Dylan Alcott is everywhere. Read about the most popular man at the Open.• Not-So-Hidden Cameras Take Australian Open Viewers on an Intimate Tour. Speaking of being everywhere — has the tournament that branded itself the Happy Slam become the Orwellian Open?• Across Australia, Yet Another Scorching Summer. Mass animal deaths, bushfires and power outages. A look at how Australia is managing a disastrous summer.• The Best Movies and TV Shows New to Netflix Australia in February Look out for “Nightflyers,” the new adaptation of George R.R. Martin’s 1980 novella. Also “Get Out,” the breakout horror hit from the writer and director Jordan Peele.Millennials have been routinely lampooned as apathetic and lazy — but recent articles (like this one from BuzzFeed) are shifting the discussion to a concern of the generation burning out from overwork.Here’s The New York Times’s take, which asks: Why are some millennials pretending to love work? When did performative workaholism become an acceptable lifestyle? And whom does it really benefit?While Australia continues to sweat through summer, Americans from New York to Chicago are being urged to stay inside to avoid bitterly cold weather that broke temperature records. At least 21 people are now believed to have died as a result of the cold, which reached as low as minus 38 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 38 degrees Celsius) in some areas.Our international climate reporter, Somini Sengupta, reported on the links between the extreme weather in both sweltering Australia and the freezing Midwest.The latest issue of New Philosopher magazine is out in stores now, which features articles from The New York Times’s philosophy column, The Stone.In the spirit of intellectual (and experimental) discourse, the team from New Philosopher will be leading discussions next week in our NYT Australia Facebook group on the topic of “Being Human.”It’s intended to be fun and inclusive, so please don’t be shy and join in (and prepare for things to get deep).A series of careful financial decisions, and the creation of nonprofits and academic centers staffed by close advisers, would help a campaign-in-waiting.Joseph R. Biden Jr. spoke with the novelist Jodi Picoult at an event last month in Vermont.CreditCreditHilary Swift for The New York TimesSupported byBy Kevin Sack and Alexander BurnsWhen officials at the University of Utah invited Joseph R. Biden Jr. to speak there in December, Mr. Biden’s representatives listed a number of requirements for the appearance. His booking firm, Creative Artists Agency, said the school would need to fly Mr. Biden and his aides to Salt Lake City by private plane. It would buy 1,000 copies of his recent memoir from a designated vendor. There would be no insertion of the word “former” before “vice president” in social media promotions. And the speaking fee would be $100,000 — “a reduced rate,” it was explained, for colleges and universities.But three days before the event, Mr. Biden’s aides learned that the public university would be using state funds to pay his fee. They already had a policy against taking tuition dollars, and decided that accepting taxpayer dollars for such a windfall might appear just as politically distasteful. Mr. Biden made the trip anyway but declined to take a check.That costly last-minute reversal exposes the complicated balance Mr. Biden has attempted since leaving the vice presidency two years ago: between earning substantial wealth for the first time and maintaining viability as a potential 2020 presidential contender.He has done so while building a network of nonprofits and academic centers that are staffed by his closest strategists and advisers, many making six figures while working on the issues most closely identified with him. It has effectively become a campaign-in-waiting, poised to metamorphose if the 76-year-old Mr. Biden announces his third bid for the presidency.[Here are five ways that 2020 hopefuls are campaigning when there is no campaign yet.]Mr. Biden is expected to reveal his plans early this year, after consulting with his family over the holidays. Having skipped the 2016 race after the grueling death of his elder son, Beau, from brain cancer, he would enter the coming Democratic contest as an early front-runner. With his political self-branding as “Middle-Class Joe,” he is seen by Democratic strategists as well equipped to make inroads into President Trump’s base of blue-collar white voters.CURRENTEMPLOYERNAMEFORMER BIDEN POSITIONAmericanPossibilitiesPACGreg SchultzSenior adviser toVice President Biden;longtime BidenstrategistBeau BidenFoundationfor theProtectionof ChildrenJoshua AlcornSenior adviser,Draft BidenBidenCancerInitiativeGregory C. SimonExecutive director,White House CancerMoonshot Task ForceBidenFoundationTed KaufmanFormer U.S. senatorfrom Delawareappointed as Biden’ssuccessor; chief ofstaff to SenatorJoseph R. Biden Jr.for 19 yearsLouisa TerrellSpecial assistant toPresident Obama forlegislative affairs;deputy chief of staffto Senator BidenBidenInstituteMichael DonilonSenior adviser toVice President Biden;longtime BidenstrategistSarah BianchiDirector of policy forVice President BidenPenn BidenCenter forDiplomacyand GlobalEngagementSteve RicchettiChief of staff toVice President BidenAntony J. BlinkenFormer deputysecretary of stateand national securityadviser to VicePresident BidenCURRENTEMPLOYERNAMECURRENT POSITIONFORMER BIDEN POSITIONAmericanPossibilities PACGreg SchultzExecutive directorSenior adviser to Vice President Biden;longtime Biden strategistBeau BidenFoundation forthe Protectionof ChildrenJoshua AlcornChief engagementofficerSenior adviser, Draft BidenBiden CancerInitiativeGregory C. SimonPresidentExecutive director, White HouseCancer Moonshot Task ForceBidenFoundationTed KaufmanBoard chairmanFormer U.S. senator from Delawareappointed as Biden’s successor; chief ofstaff to Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.for 19 yearsLouisa TerrellExecutive directorSpecial assistant to President Obamafor legislative affairs; deputy chief of staffto Senator BidenBidenInstituteMichael DonilonManaging directorSenior adviser to Vice President Biden;longtime Biden strategistSarah BianchiSenior adviserDirector of policy for Vice President BidenPenn BidenCenter forDiplomacyand GlobalEngagementSteve RicchettiManaging directorChief of staff to Vice President BidenAntony J. BlinkenManaging directorFormer deputy secretary of state andnational security adviser to Vice PresidentBidenBy The New York TimesSo long as a campaign remains possible, Mr. Biden has appeared mindful of the political backlash against the last Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, for earning millions by speaking to private interests in the run-up to 2016, and for her family foundation’s acceptance of huge sums from corporate and foreign donors.He has imposed telling restrictions on his moneymaking and fund-raising activities: Mr. Biden does not speak for pay to corporate, advocacy or foreign groups and does not consult or sit on boards, said Bill Russo, his spokesman. His nonprofits do not accept contributions from abroad, and the Biden Cancer Initiative does not take money from drug companies, he said.Yet Mr. Biden, whose blue-collar roots have been central to his political persona through six terms in the Senate and two as vice president, has accumulated millions of dollars through a lucrative book deal and selective paid speaking.He also has helped to start three foundations, a political action committee and academic centers at the Universities of Delaware and Pennsylvania. At least 49 staff or board members of the various Biden entities worked previously as aides or advisers to Mr. Biden, or held other positions in the Obama-Biden administration or campaigns. Their salaries and stipends consume a substantial share of the budgets of the six groups, including the philanthropic ones.The list includes Mr. Biden’s sister and longtime campaign manager, Valerie Biden Owens, who is vice chairwoman of both the Biden Institute at the University of Delaware and the Biden Foundation, as well as a paid consultant to the institute; Mike Donilon, his strategist across four decades and now the managing director of the institute and a consultant for Mr. Biden’s PAC; and Steve Ricchetti, his vice-presidential chief of staff and now the managing director of the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement. Another longtime Biden operative, Joshua Alcorn, has been paid by Mr. Biden’s PAC while serving as an executive at the Beau Biden Foundation for the Protection of Children.The top compensation, as far as can be determined from Internal Revenue Service records, belongs to Gregory C. Simon, who was projected in a tax exemption application to receive $552,500 a year to run the cancer initiative. Mr. Biden selected Mr. Simon in the final year of the Obama administration to lead the White House Cancer Moonshot Task Force for less than 40 percent of that amount.Mr. Biden declined through his spokesman to be interviewed about his post-vice-presidency. But several people close to him emphasized that he had built his mini-empire not to prepare for 2020 but to make a continuing contribution on matters of longstanding concern.“They planned a lot of this under the assumption that Hillary Clinton would be president of the United States,” said Sarah Bianchi, a former Biden policy aide who is now a paid senior adviser to the institute.That said, some top staff members will undoubtedly decamp for a campaign if there is one, several advisers said. Whether all the groups could sustain operations is unclear, given that Mr. Biden could face pressure to suspend fund-raising to avoid improper influence.During the 2018 cycle, Mr. Biden maintained visibility with campaign visits to 24 states and at least 135 other speaking engagements, giving him a platform whenever he wanted. At a book-related talk in Missoula, Mont., in early December, he fueled coast-to-coast speculation about his plans by declaring himself “the most qualified person in the country to be president.”Mr. Biden has long been self-deprecating about his relative lack of wealth, compared with some politicians. He and his wife, Dr. Jill Biden, left office with assets worth between $277,000 and $955,000 (not including their house near Wilmington, Del.), as well as a mortgage of $500,000 to $1 million and other smaller loans, according to a 2015 federal disclosure. The report gives values in ranges.But they have very likely earned more in the two years since leaving office than in the prior two decades, thanks largely to a three-book deal with Flatiron Books reported to be worth $8 million (a figure unconfirmed by the publisher). Two months after the contract was announced, they bought a six-bedroom vacation house in Rehoboth Beach, Del. — off the water — for $2.7 million. No mortgage was recorded.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Mr. Biden’s only salaried work, according to Mr. Russo, is a Penn professorship that occupies about one day a week. Dr. Biden — who is writing one of the three books — earns $99,398 as an English professor at Northern Virginia Community College, state records show. Mr. Biden, who earned $230,700 a year as vice president, receives a hefty federal pension after 44 years of public service. The couple also receive about $66,000 a year in Social Security benefits and in other pension benefits paid to Dr. Biden, according to their last public tax return, from 2015.Mr. Russo said Mr. Biden would be transparent about his finances if he ran. “He will make available his tax returns, financial interests and other information that used to be — and should once again become — commonplace,” he said, referring to Mr. Trump’s defiance of a four-decade tradition of voluntary disclosure by presidents and many candidates.Mr. Biden has restricted his paid speeches to about 40 ticketed shows and campus appearances, according to Mr. Russo. Most have been shaped around a yearlong tour to promote his 2017 book “Promise Me, Dad,” a plain-spoken account of the final year of Beau Biden’s life. It spent 11 weeks on the New York Times nonfiction best-seller list and has sold more than 300,000 copies, according to NPD BookScan.Mr. Biden did make at least two corporate speeches, to conferences held by a financial services company and by the hedge fund led by Anthony Scaramucci, Mr. Trump’s brief-tenured communications director. But he donated the fees to charity and passed on future corporate events, said a person close to him who was not authorized to speak by name.Mr. Biden has spoken subsequently at events for advocacy and partisan groups or underwritten by corporations — health care conferences; a banquet for the Charleston, S.C., branch of the N.A.A.C.P.; the Human Rights Campaign’s national dinner — but not for pay, Mr. Russo said.Open records requests to public universities revealed that Mr. Biden had appeared at some without charge — Rutgers in October 2017 and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, last month. The Nevada school paid $225,000 to the Clinton Foundation for a speech by Mrs. Clinton in 2014.Mr. Russo and Mr. Biden’s representatives at Creative Artists declined to disclose his usual fees. But his contract with the University of Utah, obtained through the state’s freedom of information act, was for $100,000, plus $10,000 for the private plane. In an October email between university officials, one told the other that an agent for Mr. Biden had described that as a discount.The book events feature Mr. Biden being interviewed for an hour by another prominent figure, like the screenwriter Aaron Sorkin or the philanthropist Melinda Gates. Tickets for a recent appearance, in Burlington, Vt., cost $45 to $90, with a meet-and-greet package going for $375.The Bidens pay a staff of five to handle scheduling, media and advance work through a Delaware firm they incorporated called CelticCapri, after his and her Secret Service code names.Nearly all of the former vice president’s closest advisers are attached to one of his centers, full or part time.Mr. Ricchetti, who has been gauging donor support for a Biden candidacy, is at the Penn Biden Center, a foreign policy think tank intended to give the university a higher profile in Washington. Others on the staff include Antony J. Blinken, who was Mr. Biden’s national security adviser, and several regional policy experts.At the Biden Institute at Mr. Biden’s alma mater, the focus is on domestic issues including strengthening the middle class, gay and civil rights, and violence against women. It is housed within the school of public policy, which was recently renamed for him as well.Administrators at both universities declined to provide budgets or salaries. Their presidents called Mr. Biden’s contributions invaluable, particularly in luring dignitaries to their campuses. “Among our strategic priorities is bringing Penn to the world and the world to Penn, and who better to do that?” said Amy Gutmann, Penn’s president.Mr. Biden’s PAC, American Possibilities, is led by Greg Schultz, a political operative who served as his senior White House adviser. The committee paid him $225,000 over 18 months, records show.The PAC raised $2.5 million during the 2018 midterm cycle from contributors who included the technology entrepreneur Sean Parker and the Hollywood producers Steven Spielberg and Jeffrey Katzenberg. But only 21 percent of its spending was distributed to Democratic candidates and committees — more than 120 in all — while the rest went to salaries and expenses like Mr. Biden’s travel.There is modest overlap between Mr. Biden’s political donors and the benefactors of the Biden Foundation, the only of his nonprofits that has voluntarily disclosed its donors. Notable is Tim Gill, a Colorado software entrepreneur and influential gay-rights activist, who, with his husband, is listed as giving at least $1 million to the foundation, as well as the maximum $10,000 each to the PAC.The foundation is chaired by Ted Kaufman, Mr. Biden’s chief of staff in the Senate and appointed successor after the 2008 election. With Mr. Biden’s help, it raised $6.6 million in its first two years, including seven gifts of at least $500,000. The Bidens pitched in $100,000, according to Mr. Kaufman.Staff compensation accounted for 42 percent of the foundation’s $2.6 million in spending in 2017. That included $256,000 for the executive director, Louisa Terrell, who was deputy chief of Mr. Biden’s Senate staff. The foundation’s website now lists 16 staff members, including policy experts in areas like military families and violence against women.“These are people who have been with him doing these kinds of things throughout his career,” Mr. Russo said.The Biden nonprofits are not traditional grant-makers, and the only one made by the Biden Foundation was nearly $500,000 to spin off the cancer initiative. That group took in $3.9 million in 2017, including three gifts from undisclosed donors worth at least $1 million, according to tax filings.It spent $1.8 million, more than three-fourths of it on salaries and other compensation. That included Mr. Simon’s package and a projected $292,500 for the vice president, Danielle Carnival, who had worked on cancer policy in the Obama White House.At the Beau Biden Foundation, based in Wilmington, Del., salaries accounted for 45 percent of spending in 2016 and 2017, while grants accounted for less than 1 percent.Those around Mr. Biden would not speculate about what might happen to the groups if he entered the 2020 race. But at least one set of plans has already been shelved.When the Biden Foundation applied to the I.R.S. for tax-exempt status in February 2016, it stated that one mission would be to “educate the public regarding Vice President Biden’s career in public service” by building “a first-of-its-kind vice-presidential library and museum for the study of the vice presidency.”Then Donald J. Trump was elected, perversely reviving Mr. Biden’s three-decade dream of winning the presidency, a job that comes with its own library. “Since that time,” said Mark Gitenstein, the foundation’s president, “the board of the Biden Foundation determined that was no longer a relevant objective.”Kitty Bennett contributed research.Follow Kevin Sack on Twitter at @ksacknyt.AdvertisementSupported byThe new rule would steer federal family planning funds under Title X to anti-abortion and faith based groups.By Pam BelluckThe Trump administration announced on Friday that it will bar organizations that provide abortion referrals from receiving federal family planning money, a step that could strip millions of dollars from Planned Parenthood and direct it toward religiously-based, anti-abortion groups.The new federal rule is almost certain to be challenged in court. Clinics will be able to talk to patients about abortion, but not where they can get one. And clinics will no longer have to counsel women on all reproductive options, including abortion, a change that will make anti-abortion providers eligible for funding.The rule, which has been expected for months, is the most recent step by the Trump administration to shift the direction of federal health programs in a conservative direction. The administration has expanded the ability of employers to claim religious or moral objections to the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that they offer employees insurance coverage for contraception. It has channeled funding for teen pregnancy prevention programs and family planning grants into programs that emphasize sexual abstinence over contraception.Some of these changes are being challenged in lawsuits by groups that support reproductive rights, but the new policies have broad support among evangelicals, who are a big part of the president’s political base.The rule announced on Friday is not a wholesale defunding of Planned Parenthood, a long-held goal of conservatives. Organizations receiving money through the federal family planning program, called Title X, will still be able to perform abortions but will have to do so in a separate facility from their other operations and adhere to the new requirement that they not refer patients to it. Organizations that receive federal funds have already been prohibited for years from using that money to finance abortion services. The new rule goes a step further by ordering them to keep separate books for their abortion operations.Many women’s organizations said the new requirements will interfere with health providers’ responsibilities to fully counsel patients about reproductive health. “Trump’s domestic gag rule harms women in more ways than one,” Stephanie Schriock, president of EMILY’S List, said in a statement. “It effectively dismantles Title X, forces doctors to lie and forbids them from referring their patients for abortion, and prevents women from being able to access Planned Parenthood’s services.”Anti-abortion organizations heralded the regulation as a long-sought victory. “The finalized ‘protect life rule’ draws a bright line between abortion and family planning programs,” Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council, said in a statement, adding that the rule will loosen Planned Parenthood’s “hold on tens of millions of tax dollars.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Title X provides $286 million in funding for programs that provide services like birth control, screening for breast cancer and cervical cancer and screening and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases. These programs serve about 4 million patients each year, many of them poor, at more than 4,000 clinics. About 40 percent of those clinics are operated by Planned Parenthood, which receives close to $60 million through the family planning program each year.“In many parts of the country, Planned Parenthood is the only provider who participates in the program,” said Dr. Leana Wen, president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. She added: “Patients expect their doctors to speak honestly with them, to answer their questions, to help them in their time of need. Imagine if the Trump administration prevented doctors from talking to our patients with diabetes about insulin. It would never happen. Reproductive health care should be no different.”The new rule is not the first time a Republican administration has tried to withhold family planning funds from organizations that provide abortion counseling or services. In 1988, President Ronald Reagan barred clinics from not only referring patients for abortions, but also from counseling them about abortions.That rule was challenged all the way to the Supreme Court, which upheld it in 1991, during the administration of President George H.W. Bush. But the Bush administration did not implement it and in 1993 Bill Clinton was sworn in as president and eliminated the rule.Conservative lawmakers hailed the new rule as a long overdue move back toward the Reagan policy, and some were especially pleased by the prospect that anti-abortion health providers could now be eligible for federal family planning funds.“Importantly, faith-based health organizations will no longer be forced to compromise their pro-life principles to receive government funding,” said Rep. Steve Scalise, the House Republican Whip.But several medical organizations predicted that the new rule would ultimately leave large numbers of patients, especially low-income and minority women, without access to basic care.Dr. Niva Lubin-Johnson, president of the National Medical Association, which represents African-American physicians and their patients, said that if Planned Parenthood loses the funding, other providers supported by the program would have to increase their caseloads by an average of 70 percent to care for the 1.6 million people who currently receive such services through Planned Parenthood.“Many providers have already said they would be unable to fill this gap,” Dr. Lubin-Johnson said. “This rule will have dire and disproportionate consequences for African-American patients, who make up 22 percent of people who access health care through Title X.”Most of the changes required by the new regulation will be phased in beginning 60 days after it is published in the Federal Register. Compliance with the financial separation requirement takes effect 120 days after publication and clinics have a year to comply with the physical separation requirements.AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — Pharmaceutical executives, testifying before Congress, could not readily explain on Tuesday why the prices for many brand-name prescription drugs were much higher in the United States than in other developed countries.“It is almost as if the taxpayer has ‘stupid’ written on their face,” Senator Bill Cassidy, Republican of Louisiana, told the seven executives, who faced a barrage of questions and criticism at a three-hour hearing of the Senate Finance Committee.Mr. Cassidy joined two other Republican senators, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and John Cornyn of Texas, and all the Democrats on the panel in expressing deep concern about constituents who could not afford the drugs they needed to survive.Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, the home to many drug and biotechnology companies, offered what he described as “a friendly warning” to the witnesses. “If you don’t take meaningful action to reduce prescription drug prices,” he said, “policymakers are going to do it for you.”The hearing was political theater, but could also be a first step toward legislation to provide some relief to consumers, as lawmakers of both parties and President Trump have vowed to slow the relentless rise of drug prices.It was also clear from the hearing that senators had a lot to learn about drug pricing and that pharmaceutical executives did not fully appreciate the explosive political potential of the issue.“I feel like I need a Ph.D. in prescription drug pricing to understand how the heck this industry works,” said Senator Maggie Hassan, Democrat of New Hampshire.Richard A. Gonzalez, the chairman and chief executive of AbbVie, the maker of the best-selling arthritis drug Humira, told the committee that his company made profits in countries like Germany and France where prices of brand-name drugs were often much lower than in the United States.“The U.S. has some of the highest prices in the world,” Mr. Gonzalez said.Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the senior Democrat on the committee, asked, “How is that not gouging American consumers with high prices?”“You’re willing to sit by and hose the American consumer while giving price breaks to consumers overseas,” Mr. Wyden said. Drug makers’ attempts to justify their prices, when so many patients cannot afford them, are “morally repugnant,” he said.The drug makers vehemently opposed Mr. Trump’s proposal for Medicare to pay for certain prescription drugs based on the prices paid in other developed countries.The Trump administration has said Medicare is paying 80 percent more than the amount other advanced industrial countries do for some of the most costly physician-administered drugs. Under its proposal, Medicare would still pay 26 percent more.But the drug company executives bristled at the idea. Under such proposals, they said, the United States would be importing price controls from other countries where coverage of costly new drugs is sometimes delayed or denied.“American patients have access to cancer medicines about two years earlier than patients in other countries, including Germany, France and the United Kingdom,” said Pascal Soriot, the chief executive of AstraZeneca. As a result, he suggested, American patients have generally seen greater improvements in cancer survival rates.Kenneth C. Frazier, the chief executive of Merck, said his company could not just walk away from European markets where health officials set lower drug prices. It would be “immoral to leave the patients behind,” he said.Mr. Cornyn said AbbVie had tried to block competition for Humira by surrounding it with a thicket of patents. In response to questions, Mr. Gonzalez, the chief executive, said AbbVie had 136 patents on Humira, with different patents protecting its use to treat different conditions.“I support drug companies’ recovering a profit based on their research and development of innovative drugs,” Mr. Cornyn said. “But at some point that patent has to end, that exclusivity has to end, so that patients get access to those drugs at a much cheaper cost.”Mr. Cassidy expressed interest in an idea that has been embraced by many Democrats but few Republicans: that Medicare should, in some cases, be able to negotiate prices with drug manufacturers.“Right now,” Mr. Cassidy said, “Medicare has a very limited ability to negotiate” prices based on the relative value of a therapy. Medicare’s prescription drug plans, offered by private insurers, hire pharmacy benefit managers to negotiate, but they are not always effective, he said.Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said taxpayers subsidized pharmaceutical research, through the National Institutes of Health, and advertising, through tax deductions for business expenses. But, he noted, many drugs cost more than the median income of Medicare beneficiaries, about $26,000 a year.“We can’t afford to gave Big Pharma the blank check that you’ve had,” Mr. Brown told the executives.Mr. Grassley, the committee chairman, set the tone for the hearing when he said that practices of the pharmaceutical industry “thwart the laws and regulations designed to promote competition” and the use of lower-cost generic drugs.Several themes ran through the testimony of the drug company executives, who were clearly playing defense. The main problem, they said, is not the high list prices set by drug manufacturers, but the high out-of-pocket costs paid by patients.Several drug company executives suggested establishing a monthly or annual limit on a Medicare patient’s out-of-pocket costs for prescription drugs.Several chief executives, including Mr. Frazier of Merck and Olivier Brandicourt of Sanofi, said they could also support legislation that speeds the development of generic medications by requiring brand-name manufacturers to provide samples to generic drug companies. Generic drug developers need samples to show that a generic copy is equivalent to the original, but they have often had difficulty getting them.Ronny Gal, a securities analyst who follows the drug industry for Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said he doubted that drug companies would change their pricing practices because of the hearing.“This is a $460 billion industry,” Mr. Gal said. “You think three hours of an orchestrated show before Congress will lead to different behavior? I don’t think so.”Pharmaceutical executives do “want to be at the table for whatever comes next,” Mr. Gal said, and that could eventually include discussions and negotiations on legislation.Mr. Gonzalez, of AbbVie, said drug prices were a problem for some patients because their out-of-pocket costs were often a percentage of a drug’s list price.Mr. Soriot said the list prices of drugs did not reflect the true cost because AstraZeneca and other companies provided rebates and discounts to many health insurance plans and the middlemen known as pharmacy benefit managers. On average, he said, the rebates — intended to secure a favored position on a health plan’s list of covered drugs — are “nearly 50 percent of our gross revenues in the United States.”AbbVie, AstraZeneca and several other companies said they would reduce prices for consumers if Congress outlawed the rebates that drug makers pay to insurers and middlemen to promote the use of their drugs in Medicare and commercial insurance.Democratic senators wanted a firmer commitment. They asked the drug company executives to put it in writing.Albert Bourla, the chief executive of Pfizer, said he supported efforts to eliminate rebates paid to health plans and middlemen. Patients, he said, should get the benefit of such price concessions at the pharmacy counter.“None of the close to $12 billion of rebates that Pfizer paid in 2018 found their way to American patients,” Mr. Bourla said.He also said drug makers should be paid in proportion to the value of their medicines. Pfizer, he said, could be “paid based on the number of strokes we prevent or the number of cancer patients who go into full remission, rather than the number of pills we sell.”With the proliferation of high-deductible health plans, Mr. Bourla said, patients are paying a larger share of prescription drug costs.“Patients are made to pay on average 14 percent of the cost of their medicines, but only 3 percent of the costs associated with hospital stays,” he said.Patients, doctors and members of Congress have cited rising insulin prices as an example of what is wrong with drug prices in America, and Mr. Brandicourt, the Sanofi chief executive, defended the company’s record.“The net price of our insulin product Lantus has fallen over 30 percent since 2012,” Mr. Brandicourt said. “Yet over this same period, average out-of-pocket costs for patients with commercial insurance and Medicare — before the benefit of any Sanofi financial assistance program — has risen 60 percent.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON — If President Trump allows states to convert Medicaid into a block grant with a limit on health care spending for low-income people, he will face a firestorm of opposition in Congress, House Democrats told the nation’s top health official on Tuesday.The official, Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, endured more than four hours of bipartisan criticism over the president’s budget for 2020, which would substantially reduce projected spending on Medicaid, Medicare and biomedical research. Democrats, confronting Mr. Azar for the first time with a House majority, scorned most of the president’s proposals.But few drew as much heat as Mr. Trump’s proposed overhaul of Medicaid. His budget envisions replacing the current open-ended federal commitment to the program with a lump sum of federal money for each state in the form of a block grant, a measure that would essentially cap payments and would not keep pace with rising health care costs.Congress rejected a similar Republican plan in 2017, but in his testimony on Tuesday before the Health Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Mr. Azar refused to rule out the possibility that he could grant waivers to states that wanted to move in that direction.Under such waivers, Mr. Azar said, he could not guarantee that everyone now enrolled in Medicaid would keep that coverage.“You couldn’t make that kind of commitment about any waiver,” Mr. Azar said. He acknowledged that the president’s budget would reduce the growth of Medicaid by $1.4 trillion in the coming decade.Representative G. K. Butterfield, Democrat of North Carolina, said that “block-granting and capping Medicaid would endanger access to care for some of the most vulnerable people” in the country, like seniors, children and the disabled.Mr. Trump provoked bipartisan opposition by declaring a national emergency to spend more money than Congress provided to build a wall along the southwestern border. If the president bypasses Congress and allows states to convert Medicaid to a block grant, Mr. Butterfield said, he could face even more of an outcry.“You just wait for the firestorm this will create,” Mr. Butterfield said, noting that more than one-fifth of Americans — more than 70 million low-income people — depend on Medicaid.As a candidate, Mr. Trump said he would not cut Medicare, but his new budget proposes to cut more than $800 billion from projected spending on the program for older Americans in the next 10 years. Mr. Azar said the proposals would not harm Medicare beneficiaries.“I don’t believe any of the proposals will impact access to services,” Mr. Azar said. Indeed, he said, the cutbacks could be a boon to Medicare beneficiaries, reducing their out-of-pocket costs.After meeting an annual deductible, beneficiaries typically pay 20 percent of the Medicare-approved amount for doctor’s services and some prescription drugs administered in doctor’s offices and outpatient hospital clinics.Mr. Azar defended a budget proposal to impose work requirements on able-bodied adults enrolled in Medicaid. Arkansas began enforcing such requirements last year under a waiver granted by the Trump administration. Since then, at least 18,000 Arkansans have lost Medicaid coverage.Mr. Azar said he did not know why they had been dropped from Medicaid. It is possible, he said, that some had found jobs providing health benefits.Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III, Democrat of Massachusetts, said it would be reckless to extend Medicaid work requirements to the entire country without knowing why people were falling off the rolls in Arkansas.If you are receiving free coverage through Medicaid, Mr. Azar said, “it is not too much to ask that you engage in some kind of community engagement.”Representative Fred Upton, Republican of Michigan, expressed deep concern about Mr. Trump’s proposal to cut the budget of the National Cancer Institute by $897 million, or 14.6 percent, to $5.2 billion.Mr. Azar said the proposal was typical of the “tough choices” in Mr. Trump’s budget. He defended the cuts proposed for the National Cancer Institute, saying they were proportional to the cuts proposed for its parent agency, the National Institutes of Health.The president’s budget would reduce funds for the N.I.H. as a whole by 12.6 percent, to $34.4 billion next year.Mr. Azar was also pressed to justify Mr. Trump’s proposal to cut federal payments to hospitals serving large numbers of low-income patients. Representative Eliot L. Engel, Democrat of New York, said the cuts, totaling $26 billion over 10 years, would be devastating to “safety net hospitals” in New York and other urban areas.Mr. Azar said that the Affordable Care Act, by expanding coverage, was supposed to “get rid of uncompensated care” so there would be less need for the special payments.While Democrats assailed the president’s budget, Mr. Azar relished the opportunity to attack Democrats’ proposals to establish a single-payer health care system billed as Medicare for all.Those proposals could eliminate coverage provided to more than 20 million people through private Medicare Advantage plans and to more than 155 million people through employer-sponsored health plans, he said.But Mr. Azar found himself on defense on another issue aside from the president’s budget: immigration. He said he was doing his best to care for migrant children who had illegally entered the United States, were separated from their parents and are being held in shelters for which his department is responsible.He said he was not aware of the “zero tolerance” immigration policy before it was publicly announced in April 2018 by Attorney General Jeff Sessions. If he had known about the policy, Mr. Azar said, “I could have raised objections and concerns.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Jesse GreenWedded love, unless it is the kind masquerading as fury, is not very often — or very well — portrayed onstage. Where is the drama in the unimpeded marriage of true minds?On the other hand, a slim book like “About Alice” can be devastating. In that 2011 memoir, an expansion of an earlier New Yorker article, the journalist Calvin Trillin conjures a great love story in the guise of a eulogy for his wife of 35 years, who died in 2001 after decades spent dealing with lung cancer and its sequels. The liveliness and restraint of the prose, along with Mr. Trillin’s characteristic wryness, suggest deep if narrow rivers of feeling; the reader may cross and cry without fear of drowning.It must therefore have seemed like a fine idea to have Mr. Trillin adapt the material again, this time for the stage. But the emotional terrain has shifted with the genre, so much that the restraint now feels like withholding. As a result, the dramatization of “About Alice” that opened on Sunday evening at Theater for a New Audience in Brooklyn is sweet and mild and less emotional than the book, when what you want is for it to be more so.There was probably no way to avoid that, once it was decided to put both Calvin (Jeffrey Bean) and Alice (Carrie Paff) onstage. Not that the actors in any way fall short of inhabiting their characters. Mr. Bean, hilarious in “The Thanksgiving Play” just a few months ago, uncannily reproduces Mr. Trillin’s familiar speaking voice and manner, with the sly quality of a man who knows he has a good line in reserve. And Ms. Paff keeps Alice’s warmth and critical intelligence — she is the problem-solver of the family — in lovely equilibrium, even as illness would seem to threaten both.But creating these simulacra of the book’s characters, however accurately, is not the same as dramatizing them. Sometimes it is the opposite. Having a narrator describe his wife in prose is a remarkably different experience from having him introduce her in a play and then letting her speak his description herself. What seemed doting in his voice may seem sharp or critical or canned in hers, and his recitation of her endless admirable qualities may seem more like flattery than mourning when the woman is standing quite vividly right there.The production, directed by Leonard Foglia, tries to address the relentless writerliness of the material by opening it up a bit. The Alice onstage is given, in addition to Calvin’s words, some of her own, drawn from two of her published works about illness: “Dear Bruno,” a letter to a 12-year-old boy hospitalized with a malignant tumor, and “Of Dragons and Garden Peas,” an influential essay about the patient’s experience of cancer treatment. But merely reciting passages from these works doesn’t help much; a play is not an audiobook.[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter]What we long for are moments in which the couple’s personalities collide: hers earnest and practical, his airy and arch. When we get them, the light of drama finally flickers on, as in a scene depicting a party in 1963 at which the two, meeting for the second time, flirt. But though that interaction is fleshed out with conversation only alluded to in the book, the dialogue — mostly about chiggers — does not really support Alice’s bemused contention that her future husband was never again so funny as he was that night. He just seems like Calvin Trillin at a run-of-the-mill Barnes & Noble reading.That distinction between literary dialogue and stage dialogue keeps stalling the action; the only scenes to benefit from theatricalization are thus those whose conflict is subtextual. In the most wrenching of them, when Alice’s health is failing, Calvin must promise that, even if she dies, their younger daughter’s imminent wedding will proceed as planned. Yet death is never mentioned. The emotion is in the silence: hers to convince him and his to acquiesce.I could wish there were more such scenes, but the material would have to be significantly rethought to produce them. And I’m not sure that a eulogy wants expanding anyway. Watching Mr. Foglia’s fine and sensitive production, you are intensely aware that something very private has become very public, with beautiful wigs (by Tom Watson) and costumes (by David C. Woolard) and projections (by Elaine J. McCarthy) and stage management and ushers and an audience to admire it all. The icy solitude of grief is gone, replaced by the warmth of nostalgia, which if it was a fair trade for Mr. Trillin isn’t so much for us.This information was last updated on Jan. 25, 2019Follow Jesse Green on Twitter: @JesseKGreen.