AdvertisementSupported byBy George Gene GustinesIn Issue No. 5 of the Unstoppable Wasp, which arrives in comic stores on Wednesday, the title hero comes to a realization: “I need help. I think I’m bipolar … and I don’t think I can handle this alone.”The comic book series, from Marvel Entertainment, stars Nadia Van Dyne, who received her scientific curiosity and size-changing abilities from her father, Henry Pym, a.k.a. Hank, the former Ant-Man. The issue is written by Jeremy Whitley, drawn by Gurihiru and lettered by Joe Caramagna.Last month, the teenage Wasp was shown intensely trying to solve one problem, which then multiplied into a huge problem. The chalkboard she used for her plans is a cacophony of ideas. The situation seems familiar to Nadia’s mentor, Janet Van Dyne (the original Wasp and the ex-wife of Hank Pym). “This looks a lot like a manic episode,” she says, while telling Nadia’s friends that Hank had bipolar disorder. “If it’s not treated, a person can have episodes — intense changes in mood — especially in times of stress,” she explains.Nadia’s having bipolar disorder is something Whitley discussed with his editor, Alanna Smith, early on. In doing his research, Whitley said in a telephone interview, he learned that bipolar disorder can be passed along genetically. “I thought it made sense that she would most likely deal with it at some point,” he added.In the January issue, Nadia was shown running on fumes, refusing to sleep or eat until her work was done. She also lashed out against her friends.The confrontation continues in the new issue as Nadia retreats into her miniature laboratory. In that subatomic environment, where time moves more quickly, Nadia goes into a depressive phase. One of her friends follows her, and the two have a powerful moment (better experienced than spoiled here).Whitley said he heard from family members of people with bipolar disorder who recognized the manic behavior in the previous issue. They “could see what was happening before anyone said anything,” he said.His goal, he said, was to make sure the condition was treated respectfully, and he consulted with psychologists on the subject. He said he “also wanted to reflect the reality of the situation: Bipolar disorder is not something you can cure,” though medicine and therapy can help. He hopes that coping with the disorder remains an important part of the Wasp’s character, but not her entire being: “For real people, there’s so much more to their lives and personalities than this one thing.”In Issue No. 5, the regular Q. and A. feature is with Chris Ceary, who teaches psychology at Johns Hopkins University’s Peabody Institute. Ceary discusses comics, mental health and the presentation of Nadia’s bipolar disorder. “I know so many people will feel seen by this depiction, and that is a gift,” she says.Whitley was also proud that it is one of Nadia’s friends who helps her. “It was important to me to have this character who is not a superhero, who does not have any sort of exceptional powers, to save the day because she has the life experience to help Nadia,” he said. “There are a lot of stories out there of people who have made it through things because they had the right person at the right time.”An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the artist of the cover of Issue No. 5 of the Unstoppable Wasp. It is Stacey Lee, not Gurihuru.Follow George Gene Gustines on Twitter: @GeorgeGustines.AdvertisementSupported bylensThrough documentary as well as collaborative, interpretive portraiture, Matthieu Zellweger aims to capture the experiences of people with the condition. Photographs by Matthieu ZellwegerText by David GonzalezWhen the medical journal The Lancet asked Matthieu Zellweger to photograph any psychiatric condition that intrigued him, he thought of a close friend who has been living with bipolar disorder. He knew how his friend lamented that it was an “invisible handicap” that you couldn’t just snap out of, as some well-meaning but frustrated people would suggest.But Mr. Zellweger also recognized something in his friend that led him to propose a photo essay on bipolar disorder.“I’ve been around him quite a bit,” Mr. Zellweger said. “And the one thing that definitely surprised me is that — let’s face it — very intelligent people are overrepresented among bipolar people. A lot of them are very lucid about their disease. They have thought about how it impacts their lives. It was very stimulating to talk with them.”Mr. Zellweger spent 18 months in Switzerland, where he lives, and in Britain, photographing people with bipolar disorder, as well as their relatives or lovers who accompanied them, as they struggle with manic highs and depressive lows. He sought out subjects through patient advocacy groups and treatment centers who were open to sharing their experiences.“There are so many misconceptions about the disorder that a lot of the patients were happy to dispel that,” he said. “There is such a general stigma around mental disorders. One of the patients told me that when she told her friend about being bipolar, her friend said, ‘Oh, are you going to run after me with an ax?’ People think bipolar patients are uncontrollable or dangerous. But the only aggressive behavior I saw was people being aggressive against themselves.”The people he photographed offered a range of insights into the disorder and how they cope with it, sometimes in ways that were counterintuitive. One said she felt her manic episodes were almost like “an ecstatic state,” while another said they could see signals or hear hidden meanings only she could decipher.Others reflected on the very nature of existence, wondering who was the person between the highs and lows. One woman said “she feels double,” Mr. Zellweger said. “A light double and a dark one. She can’t quite disentangle which is her.”But he also found moments of tenderness, as with one couple in which the wife is bipolar. “It’s a powerful love story where they have spent a lifetime together,” Mr. Zellweger said. “He knows she can be super creative in her manic phase. He did tell me that those moments when she lost track of reality was actually fodder for further conversation. When she would come down, they would discuss it and what facets of her brain she explored.”
          PAID FOR AND POSTED BY 
          UNIVERSITY OF IOWA

@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Source Serif Pro');
T
@import url('https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Eczar');
ed Abel is mobilizing an interdisciplinary team of researchers at the University of Iowa who are committed to improving the lives of individuals with psychiatric and neurological disorders. For him, the mission is personal.
As Ted Abel talks about his son, Seamus, he does what many proud parents often do: He whips out his phone and pulls up a photo. In it, a smiling teenager dons a black cap and gown and a bow tie. It’s an image from Seamus’s recent high school graduation ceremony.It was an exciting moment for Abel and his wife, Noreen, and one neither wants to take for granted. Completing high school was not a sure thing for Seamus. A week after his birth, the new parents were wracked with worry and fear in the neonatal intensive care unit at Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia. Their infant had stopped eating and urinating.Source: World Economic ForumBrain imaging revealed low-grade bleeding in his ventricles, which Abel says explained the symptoms. Seamus was stabilized, though developmental pediatricians continued to closely monitor his progress. At 3, Seamus was diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder. He didn’t see a typical classroom until the fourth grade. Although Seamus is high-functioning — he studied AP German his senior year in high school and helped take his bocce team to the state tournament — Abel says his son encounters difficulties every day, suffers from anxiety and doesn’t have peer friendships.Source: World Economic Forum“The trajectory for him was very unclear,” Abel says, “and to be where he is today, graduating from high school, is really terrific. It’s amazing thinking back on it.” Seamus is now enrolled in an education and support program for students with autism based at the Kinney Center of Saint Joseph’s University in Philadelphia.When Seamus was born, Abel was a junior faculty member in neuroscience studying behavior, learning and memory at the University of Pennsylvania. Over time, his son’s diagnosis motivated him to expand his research focus to include autism. Now he leads a brain research institute at the University of Iowa and is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In the last two years, Abel has published several research papers on autism, and he is poised to oversee research breakthroughs that could help his son and many others.Source: National Institute of Mental HealthSource: National Institute of Mental HealthIn 2017, Abel moved to Iowa City to become the first director of the Iowa Neuroscience Institute at the University of Iowa. Buoyed by a $45 million gift from the Roy J. Carver Charitable Trust of Muscatine, Iowa, and two floors of dedicated lab space, Abel has assembled a multidisciplinary team of more than 100 scientists determined to solve the mysteries of the brain and nervous system. They intend to find causes of and develop treatments for a range of psychiatric and neurological disorders, from autism and Alzheimer’s disease to stroke. The university’s Carver College of Medicine dedicated two floors of lab space to the institute in its newest biomedical research building, which also houses shared research facilities.“In other areas of medicine, like cardiology and cancer and diabetes, doctors have been able to develop tests,” Abel says. “They’ve been able to develop treatments that either delay disease, as in the case of heart disease, or treat those disorders, as in HIV. With neurodevelopmental, neurological and psychiatric disorders, however, we haven’t gotten there.”
Source: 2017 Annals of Neurology reportSource: 2017 Annals of Neurology reportAutism, for example, affects an estimated 1 in 59 children in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In a recent study, Abel uncovered a clue about the male predominance in autism: Male mice that model autism showed an impaired ability to associate reward with a particular stimulus and response.“Reward learning gives us a window into a brain region called the striatum that mediates this kind of learning,” he says. “This type of learning underlies our ability to predict what will happen in the world. Many individuals on the autism spectrum have trouble predicting what will happen next or coping when what they expect to happen does not occur, leading to difficulties in social interaction and communication.”In the past decade, neuroscience has introduced techniques from physics, engineering, chemistry and biochemistry to manipulate and image circuits of nerve cells in the brain. Abel hopes to use those findings to understand how neurons in the brain work to drive behavior.Abel’s vision and energy inspire confidence in Hanna Stevens, a researcher and assistant professor of psychiatry who came to the University of Iowa from the Yale School of Medicine. She studies the genetic and environmental factors that influence early brain development and how those factors may play a role in childhood behavior or influence the risk of psychiatric disorders. She shares Abel’s commitment to improving the lives of individuals with brain disorders.“Not only do they have a major illness that puts them at a great disability, they have a society that often doesn’t take that disability seriously,” Stevens says. “People may even dismiss the disability as a character flaw or a moral failing.” Their collaboration should facilitate the development of new interventions, which is fundamental for people who are undermined by mental illness, she says, adding, “We’ll also help make the world a better place for these individuals by showing others that problems in the brain are actually causing these disorders.”If raising a son with autism has imparted one thing, it’s empathy, Abel says. He says he better understands the lives of people with neurological and psychiatric disorders and those of their families — and he is motivated to help improve their lives. Breakthroughs in brain research are forthcoming, and scientists are making advances, especially in terms of understanding genes and neural circuits, he says. Diagnoses and treatments have improved, and public awareness is growing. Acceptance of individuals with these disorders, he adds, must follow.AdvertisementSupported byBy Benedict CareyDr. John Gunderson, whose studies of people with suicidal urges, fears of abandonment and squalls of emotion helped establish borderline personality disorder as a stand-alone diagnosis, providing a foundation for research and the first effective treatments, died on Jan. 11 at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 76.His wife, Susan, said the cause was prostate cancer.Dr. Gunderson, who was trained in Freudian analysis, was evaluating the effects of psychotherapy on people identified as schizophrenic in the early 1970s when he discovered that many of the participants in his study had received the wrong diagnosis. They did not have recurring psychoses, the signature symptom of schizophrenia, but rather a poorly understood syndrome described by the German-American psychiatrist Adolph Stern in 1938: Their mental state was on the “border” between garden-variety neurosis and full-blown psychosis.Dr. Gunderson plunged into the literature on borderline patients and distilled their defining features. These included intense fears of being alone, floods of emotional turmoil and impulsive self-harming, like cutting. He collaborated with Margaret T. Singer on an influential 1975 paper, “Defining Borderline Patients: An Overview,” turning a collection of descriptive accounts into a firm diagnosis. He also developed a diagnostic interview that set the standard for identifying the disorder, bringing focus to what had been a baffling condition.“The way these patients were described before was as treatment failures, as if it was somehow their fault,” Dr. Lois Choi-Kain, director of the adult borderline center at the Harvard-affiliated McLean Hospital, in Belmont, Mass., where Dr. Gunderson spent much of his career, said in a phone interview. “John came along and said no, these are symptoms of the disorder, not failures.”That paper and others provided a foundation for research into borderline disorder that had not previously existed, clearing the way for its inclusion as a full stand-alone diagnosis in the landmark third edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, psychiatry’s encyclopedia of mental disorders, published in 1980.In 1996, Dr. Gunderson published another analysis, “The Borderline Patient’s Intolerance of Aloneness: Insecure Attachments and Therapist Availability,” providing doctors and patients with an X-ray of the condition’s internal emotional terrain.“Being alone is often intolerable to them because it is associated with a profound sense of being bad or evil,” he wrote, “a self-image distortion accompanied by such intense feelings of guilt or shame that the question of worthiness to live often follows.”In therapy, borderline patients play rough. They are, by turns, charming and mocking, detached and enraged, bullying and needy, often threatening suicide. Dr. Gunderson seemed made for the challenge, Dr. Choi-Kain said: He was blunt and provocative himself, giving as much as he took, with a respectful enthusiasm that pushed patients without alienating them.He was adamant over the years that psychiatric drugs did not help resolve borderline symptoms. He favored talk therapies, including what is known as dialectical behavior therapy, an approach developed by the University of Washington psychologist Marsha Linehan.He also published, with Dr. Paul Links, a handbook describing what he called good psychiatric management, intended for nonspecialists, patients and families dealing with the storms of rage and self-loathing of borderline personality. This guide became widely used by doctors.Dr. Gunderson’s long commitment to people with borderline personality disorder had a hopeful payoff. He collaborated on a long-term study, led by Harvard’s Mary C. Zanarini, which found that most people given a diagnosis of borderline personality eventually recover: some 15 percent in the first year, a third by two years, fully 85 percent after a decade.“He was the first person to look systematically at the data and figure out what the heck this diagnosis really meant,” said Dr. Glen Gabbard, a clinical professor of psychiatry at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. “Before John, there were observations, case studies, confusion; after John, we had clarity.”John Gunder Gunderson was born on June 20, 1942, in Two Rivers, Wis., the youngest of three children. His father, Sherman, was a professor of economics, and his mother, Alma (Walter) Gunderson, was a high school English teacher. He grew up in Oshkosh, graduating from high school there in 1960.Determined to be a doctor, he entered Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and found himself in deep water: Everyone else seemed to be pre-med, too, and better prepared than he. He stuck it out, earning his way into a two-year Dartmouth Medical School program that fed Harvard’s medical school, where he finished his degree in 1967.In 1963, while at Dartmouth, he met Susan Riley, a student at Skidmore, on a blind date. They were married in 1965, and she would go on to work in money management in Boston.In addition to his wife, he is survived by two children, Craig and Kelly Gunderson, and five grandchildren. His sister and brother died before him.After completing an internship in Minneapolis, Dr. Gunderson did his residency at the Massachusetts Mental Health Center in Boston and received training as an analyst at the Boston Psychoanalytic Institute. He joined Harvard in 1973 and retired last year, continuing his research and seeing patients throughout his tenure there.AdvertisementSupported byI don’t give my sister the advice my eating disorder would have given me. Talking to her, I’m also talking to myself, dismantling my old ideas about food.By JoAnna Novak“U guys I had this awesome thing for dinner,” my little sister texts our family. “ICE CREAM HEHE.”After 20 years of dealing with an eating disorder, recovered-me has a response and sick-me has a response, but neither seems right. My siblings, my mom and I chat all day in our “Fam” text thread.Morning roll call? Check. Terrier on kitchen table? Yep. Food talk? A feast of food talk.Actually, not just talk. And not just food.“Did 74 min on tread,” my sister texts. “Exhausted.”I know. She started 2018 with a goal to lose 20 lingering college pounds, and she’s been in lifestyle-overhaul ever since. Often she calls me post-workout, breathless, gushing endorphins. Other times she sends sports bra selfies. (“Get it,” my mom responds.) She shares meal pics, too, plates of sheet-pan chicken or “healthy” comfort food (turkey hot dogs, cauli-mac and cheese), a latte pink with beet juice, a splurge. (That ice cream she had was Halo Top, which is low in calories and high in protein.)I was buying blue cheese for burgers last week when she said she was 10 pounds from her target. I picked up the Roquefort and blinked off memories of closing in on a number, those hazy promises that, soon, everything might change. “That’s amazing,” I said. “I’m proud of you.” She’d gained so much confidence over the last year; she was already feeling more comfortable in her skin, she said. “You know what I mean.” In a way, I did.It’s a conversation I’d never thought we’d be having, one where my sister trusts me enough to share anxieties about her body and I’m recovered enough to listen. I went on my first diet when she was 5 and I was 12. A few months later she was crying, begging newly anorexic me to eat a canned peach.Now I meet my sister’s effort with conscious good will. Her candor awes me as much as her ice cream dinner after the years I spent hiding purges and the utter impossibility of my quest, which I hid most from myself. I love her tangible goals. When she hits a plateau, I suggest cutting out alcohol. And when she wonders if talking about this stuff is still O.K. for me, I tell her it is. I’m not triggered. I want to know.I asked Dr. Maria Rago, president of the National Association of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders, about it. “When you no longer value the eating disorder, you don’t buy into an idea that you should be engaging in weight loss or unhealthy eating patterns,” she said. “You’re in a good place, not tempted to make changes even when others are.”But for many people with eating disorders, family members can remain stubborn triggers, Dr. Rago said, especially if “competing with this person was a factor in the eating disorder developing in the first place.”I’m seven years older than my sister. I’ve always embraced being a big sister, albeit one who roped her into Spice Girls dance-offs that were both sister parties and excuses to burn calories. I feel lucky that we survived my illness, that I never viewed her as a rival.For the last year, while my sister’s been losing weight, I’ve been keeping a new kind of journal for me; call it daily gratitude. “Write a list of everything you can think of that would be ruined” if the disordered eating resumed, Dr. Rago suggested. My writing, a fulfilling marriage, a trio of palm trees I can see from the kitchen window, my health — these things stay on the list, alongside relationships with my family. “You’re in a good place now,” my sister said, when I told her I was writing about this. I realized it was probably still new to her: knowing me in a good place.Getting to that good place hasn’t been easy. Recovery requires so much: support, persistence and incredible patience. It happens “little by little,” Dr. Rago said, by “learning the best ways to deal with things that we fear, so we no longer fear them.” I practice recovery by approaching my fear, modeling intuitive eating for my sister, something I couldn’t do when we were growing up. I tell her when I get peanut butter frozen yogurt at the Bigg Chill or when I have buttered popcorn for lunch (“Not lunch!” she says). When she asks what to do at the gym, I don’t give her the advice my eating disorder would have given me. When she buys chips because she’s “being bad,” I say Pringles are delicious. If she’s tired, I tell her to be kind to her body and take time off. Talking to her, I’m also talking to myself, dismantling my old negative attitudes about food.I listen to myself, shakily proud of my resilience. My sister doesn’t make me yearn for the pallid pleasures of dieting; she reminds me to delight in the messy fullness of living. When I reflect on a younger me, that shadow sister, striving to obliterate herself, I see myself alongside millions of others hurting under the tutelage of an eating disorder. The diaries with calories crawling up the margins, the hours memorizing a Stairmaster’s display, the loneliness and isolation it bred in me that nearly broke our family: If my sister’s path ever steered me back toward those old compulsions, I’d draw lines and re-evaluate myself.Dr. Rago recommended getting “active about your thoughts and feelings” when confronted with affecting diet talk. “Write them down so you know what you are working with and get support so you don’t have to figure it out all alone. If at all possible, instead of avoiding the talks, use them as an opportunity to stay strong in your own recovery. But if you start getting overwhelmed, it is O.K. to avoid a certain situation or ask people to change the subject.”For now, my sister is off to the gym, and I am thumbs-upping her messages. “Today is going to be stairs for ten then elliptical!” Even if I’m untriggered, my approach to group texts is to be present-but-with-boundaries. Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

FEB. 14, 2019

Using statistical modeling, researchers found that strenuous activity — like running or vigorous cycling, tennis or squash — may actually help to prevent depression. Benefits started at about this many minutes per day:15 minutes30 minutes45 minutesAn hourTrue or false? In winter, you can get much of the vitamin D your body needs by standing in front of a sunny window.TrueFalseThis psychological trait in 6-year-old boys was the greatest predictor of diminished earnings potential three decades later: HyperactivityInattentionDefiant behaviorAggressionSouth Asians living in the United States have a particularly high rate of death from this illness, and scientists aren't sure why:Alzheimer's diseaseStomach cancerDiabetesHeart diseaseAn F.D.A. panel recommended approval of this popular club drug as a treatment for depression:GHB (liquid X)Ketamine (special K)MDMA (ecstasy, Molly)Rohypnol (roofies)This condition causes an often painful curvature of the penis. A new drug called Xiaflex may help. Depuytren's contracturePeyronie's diseasePriapismBalanitisDr. John Gunderson died this week at age 76. He is perhaps best known for helping to establish this psychiatric diagnosis, characterized by fears of abandonment, emotional volatility and suicide attempts:Bipolar 1 disorderBipolar 2 disorderAdvertisementSupported byNot to mention the present — and the way we think about the past.By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.How you see the role of men and women at work and at home has become an integral element of contemporary political conflict.Until recently, most of the attention has been focused on partisan evaluations of problems confronting women. A 2017 Pew Research report found, for example, that by nearly 3 to 1 (73-25 percent), Democrats believe women face “significant obstacles that make it harder for them to get ahead than men,” while Republicans believe those obstacles are largely gone (63-34).Last week, however, the American Psychological Association entered the fray with the release of its long-planned “Guidelines for Psychological Practice with Boys and Men.”The A.P.A. guidelines argue that the socialization of males to adhere to components of “traditional masculinity such as emotional stoicism, homophobia, not showing vulnerability, self-reliance and competitiveness” leads to the disproportion of males involved in “aggression and violence as a means to resolve interpersonal conflict” as well as “substance abuse, incarceration, and early mortality.”The premise underlying the guidelines is summarized in a descriptive essay on the A.P.A.’s website: “Traditional masculinity — marked by stoicism, competitiveness, dominance and aggression — is, on the whole, harmful.” According to the A.P.A., the persistent commitment of many boys and men to the norms of traditional masculinity helps explain whyMen commit 90 percent of homicides in the United States and represent 77 percent of homicide victims. They’re the demographic group most at risk of being victimized by violent crime. They are 3.5 times more likely than women to die by suicide, and their life expectancy is 4.9 years shorter than women’s. Boys are far more likely to be diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder than girls, and they face harsher punishments in school — especially boys of color.There is widespread support for many of the recommendations in the guidelines — encouraging increased paternal involvement with children, for example, and developing better approaches to reduce bullying — and these are not in dispute.But the report’s critics claim that other sections derogate various masculine attributes and take as given the view that gender is “socially constructed” rather than underpinned by or reflective of biological differences between the sexes.“Understanding the socially constructed nature of masculinity and how it affects boys and men,” according to the guidelines, “is an important cultural competency.” Psychologists should “strive to recognize that masculinities are constructed based on social, cultural, and contextual norms.”The guidelines define “traditional masculine ideology” as aparticular constellation of standards that have held sway over large segments of the population, including: anti-femininity, achievement, eschewal of the appearance of weakness, and adventure, risk, and violence.The report notes that “in the aggregate, males experience a greater degree of social and economic power than girls and women in a patriarchal society.” This, according to the guidelines, is detrimental to men becauseMen who benefit from their social power are also confined by system-level policies and practices as well as individual-level psychological resources necessary to maintain male privilege. Thus, male privilege often comes with a cost in the form of adherence to sexist ideologies designed to maintain male power that also restrict men’s ability to function adaptively.Republicans and Democrats have sharply polarized views on such findings.According to an October 2017 Pew Research report, a quarter of Republicans said the country has not done enough to insure equal rights for women, while 54 percent said the country has done enough and 18 percent said the country has gone too far. Among Democrats, 69 percent said the country has not done enough, 26 percent said the country has done enough and 4 percent said the country has gone too far.Along parallel lines, a far lower percentage of Republicans than Democrats believe that changing gender roles have made it easier for marriages to be successful (26 percent of Republicans compared with 47 percent of Democrats). Similarly, 36 percent of Republicans compared with 58 percent of Democrats believe changing gender roles have made it easier for women to lead satisfying lives. Fewer Republicans than Democrats (30 to 48 percent) believe changing gender roles have made it easier for men to lead satisfying lives.The reaction to the A.P.A. guidelines — largely but not exclusively from the political center and right and much of it critical — was swift. Even Gillette has joined the debate with its new television commercial, “We Believe: The Best Man Can Be,” a critique of toxic masculinity:“It’s been going on far too long,” the narrator declares. “We can’t laugh it off.”In a Jan. 7 National Review article, “Grown Men Are the Solution, Not the Problem,” David French, one of the most outspoken critics of the A.P.A. guidelines, wrote “We are in the middle of an intense culture war focused around men.”French went on to ask:As we survey a culture that is rapidly attempting to enforce norms hostile to traditional masculinity, are men flourishing? And if men are struggling more the farther we move from those traditional norms, is the answer to continue denying and suppressing a boy’s essential nature?His answer is no:Male children are falling behind in school not because schools indulge their risk-taking and adventurousness but often because they relentlessly suppress boys and sometimes punish boys’ essential nature, from the opening bell to the close of the day.He concludes:We do our sons no favors when we tell them that they don’t have to answer that voice inside them that tells them to be strong, to be brave, and to lead. We do them no favors when we let them abandon the quest to become a grown man when that quest gets hard. Yes, we do them no favors when we’re not sensitive to those boys who don’t conform to traditional masculinity, but when it comes to the crisis besetting our young men, traditional masculinity isn’t the problem; it can be part of the cure.From a more academic vantage point, Steven Pinker, a professor of psychology at Harvard, replied to my inquiry with a detailed critique of the A.P.A. guidelines.“The report is blinkered by two dogmas. One is the doctrine of the blank slate” that rejects biological and genetic factors, Pinker wrote, adding thatThe word “testosterone” appears nowhere in the report, and the possibility that men and women’s personalities differ for biological reasons is unsayable and unthinkable.The other dogma, Pinker argued,is that repressing emotions is bad and expressing them is good — a folk theory with roots in romanticism, Freudian psychoanalysis, and Hollywood, but which is contradicted by a large literature showing that people with greater self-control, particularly those who repress anger rather than “venting,” lead healthier lives: they get better grades, have fewer eating disorders, drink less, have fewer psychosomatic aches and pains, are less depressed, anxious, phobic, and paranoid, have higher self-esteem, are more conscientious, have better relationships with their families, have more stable friendships, are less likely to have sex they regretted, are less likely to imagine themselves cheating in a monogamous relationship.In Pinker’s view, the A.P.A. guidelines fail to recognize thata huge and centuries-long change in Western history, starting from the Middle Ages, was a “Civilizing Process” in which the ideal of manhood changed from a macho willingness to retaliate violently to an insult to the ability to exert self-control, dignity, reserve, and duty. It’s the culture of the gentleman, the man of dignity and quiet strength, the mensch. The romantic 1960s ethic of self-expression and escape from inhibitions weakened that ethic, and the A.P.A. report seems to be trying to administer the coup de grâce.Pinker suggested rather thatOne could argue that what today’s men need is more encouragement to enhance one side of the masculine virtues — the dignity, responsibility, self-control, and self-reliance — while inhibiting others, such as machismo, violence, and drive for dominance.There is a major difference between the two parties regarding the basic nature versus nurture issue that plays such a prominent role in the debate about men. As my Times colleague Claire Cain Miller reported in December, data from Pew shows a partisan divide over whethergender differences were the result of biology (and thus unlikely to change) or societal norms. More than half of Republicans said biology determined differences in how men and women parented, expressed feelings or spent their free time. About two-thirds of Democrats described society as the primary driver of these differences.I asked some of those involved in preparing the A.P.A. guidelines for their response to criticisms of the report, including Pinker’s.Ryan A. McKelley, a professor of psychology at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, who participated in some of the research but not in issuing the guidelines, wrote that there was no intent to reject “biological determinants.” Instead, “it was just beyond the scope of those particular guidelines.”McKelley noted that he keeps “seeing ‘testosterone is missing’ show up in critiques of the guidelines, but psychologists don’t measure or manipulate testosterone levels in patients.”Similarly, he continued,If I treat someone for major depressive disorder, it doesn’t matter to me as a clinician what percentage of their depression might have genetic determinants. I can’t change their genes.McKelley rejectedthe implication that the goal is to eliminate male characteristics. The real implication is that rigid adherence to extreme expression of a few select masculine norms is related to poorer health outcomes.In fact, he argued, the guidelines specifically encourage a kind of competitiveness, citing a section that reads,Active play between fathers and children has a functional element correlated with several positive child outcomes, such as competitiveness without aggression, cooperation that buffers anxiety, healthy experimentation, social competence, peer acceptance and popularity, and a sense of autonomy.McKelley said hewould love to have someone argue that “competitiveness without aggression” is somehow undesirable. That sounds exactly like redirecting traits toward more productive activity and behavior.Edward M. Adams, past president of Division 51 on Men and Masculinities of the American Psychological Association, emailed that the guidelinesespouse positive manhood to include living in cooperation, respect, appreciation, courage, and fearlessness about being fully human. We do not see negativity, shame, unwarranted violence and aggression, gender domination, or hate and prejudice as ways to promote a better quality of life for any one of us.Adams noted that the guidelines area living document and will undoubtedly evolve over time. What is important is that we are grappling with the impact of destructive expectations that may thwart positive development and diminish the physical and emotional health of men and boys.There is a strikingly different approach to the debate over masculinity in a different branch of academic inquiry. As David Autor, an economist at M.I.T., wrote in response to my query:The greatest adverse shock to the psychosocial welfare of U.S. men has not stemmed from dysfunctional notions of masculinity (not that these are above reproach) nor from #MeToo (which was long overdue) but from deep secular labor market forces — both technological and trade-induced — that have over nearly four decades reduced the demand for skilled blue collar work.The effects of these economic changes, Autor wrote, have been devastating:These forces have dramatically eroded the earnings power, employment stability, social stature, and marriage market value of non-college men. The ensuing dysfunction touches not just in earnings and employment but also male idleness, dysfunctional and destructive behavior (e.g., drug and alcohol abuse), and the erosion of two-parent families, which, research suggests, facilitate children in becoming successful adults.In a December 2018 paper, “When Work Disappears: Manufacturing Decline and the Falling Marriage Market Value of Men,” Autor, David Dorn, an economist at the University of Zurich, and Gordon Hanson, an economist at the University of California-San Diego, argue that adverse trade shocks, like a surge of imports from China, “differentially reduce employment and earnings of young adult males,” “reduce marriage and fertility,” “heighten male idleness and premature mortality, and raise the share of mothers who are unwed and the share of children living in below-poverty, single-headed households.”John Hibbing, a political scientist at the University of Nebraska, wrote to me that for those “with strong muscles and backs” the changes described by Autor and others have been “wrenching.”Hibbing agreed thatthe fault is not with the MeToo Movement; it is with the nature of a labor market that has been visited by rapidly evolving technologies. No conspiracy to devalue manhood is afoot.Hibbing continued: What some men traditionally brought to the table is no longer required so they must change. That is not easy but so it goes.The men most negatively affected by changing economics, according to Hibbing, are also those most often inclined to reject the fact that “government is the best source for providing assistance and retraining in the face of these changes.” Instead, these men “resist such assistance and feel they are entitled to the arrangements of the past.”In this heated debate, Judith Butler, a prominent feminist and a professor of comparative literature at Berkeley, provided a strong case for the progressive argument in behalf of expanding gender norms. Butler argues “that feminism has opened up possibilities for boys to play football or to pursue the arts, or even to do both.”The larger point, she wrote,is to let boys find their way toward activities and passions that more fully express who they are and let them flourish apart from any social judgments about what is appropriate for their gender. Indeed, the only prescription that most feminist positions make is to treat people with dignity, to honor the equality of the sexes, to accept gender diversity, and to oppose all forms of violence against people, whether young or old, on the basis of their gender or sexuality.Many Republicans believe gender roles to be distinct and that categorical denial of hormonal or biological underpinnings to sex differences is erroneous — while simultaneously voicing doubts about the legitimacy of the science of evolution. Many Democrats defend the basic theory of evolution but remain wary of, if not hostile to, biological explanations of human behavior, in part because of their belief in the efficacy of government or other societal intervention to change behavior.What is patently clear to those on one side of the debate is patently false to those on the other. The pressures to conform to conservative orthodoxy on the right and to liberal orthodoxy on the left sometimes seem to preclude reasonable compromise — that nature and nurture interact endlessly. Fundamental disagreements about sex and gender have become so polarized that oversimplification is inevitable, and the obvious truth that both social and biological forces are at play is cast aside.The current era has been marked by a continuous series of challenges to once indisputable truths about sex and gender. Ubiquitous contraception, for one thing, has altered the fundamentals of reproductive roles. The alteration of these fundamentals has been followed by a series of transformations and dislocations — women’s rights, reproductive rights, gay rights, transgender rights, new forms of family formation and dissolution, and vastly altered patterns of fertility. Challenges to core understandings of masculinity — and femininity — are inescapable.The immensity of these upheavals should not be underestimated. That people are seeking political solutions to rapid societal changes is no surprise. That these solutions erupt in political conflict is also inevitable. For some, new horizons in matters of sexuality and sexual identity offer opportunity; for others, discomfort and fear predominate. These responses are increasingly sorting themselves into partisan affiliation, sometimes uncomfortably. And as I said at the outset, they have become an integral element of contemporary political conflict, which means that an ultimate resolution is light years away.I invite you to follow me on Twitter, @Edsall.AdvertisementSupported byAn orchestra in which musicians are dealing with mental health issues is working to harness the healing power of music.By Michele C. HollowWhen Ronald Braunstein conducts an orchestra, there’s no sign of his bipolar disorder. He’s confident and happy.Music isn’t his only medicine, but its healing power is potent. Scientific research has shown that music helps fight depression, lower blood pressure and reduce pain.The National Institutes of Health has a partnership with the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts called Sound Health: Music and the Mind, to expand on the links between music and mental health. It explores how listening to, performing or creating music involves brain circuitry that can be harnessed to improve health and well-being.Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, said: “We’re bringing neuroscientists together with musicians to speak each other’s language. Mental health conditions are among those areas we’d like to see studied.”Mr. Braunstein, 63, has experienced the benefits of music for his own mental health and set out to bring them to others by founding orchestras in which the performers are all people affected by mental illness.Upon graduating from the Juilliard School in his early 20s, he entered a summer program at the Salzburg Mozarteum in Austria, and in 1979 became the first American to win the prestigious Karajan International Conducting Competition in Berlin. His career took off. He worked with orchestras in Europe, Israel, Australia and Tokyo. At the time, he didn’t have a diagnosis of bipolar disorder.But looking back, he can see that his disorder contributed to his success, and his talent masked the condition.“The unbelievable mania I experienced helped me win the Karajan,” he said. “I learned repertoire fast. I studied through the night and wouldn’t sleep. I didn’t eat because if I did, it would take away my edge.”“My bipolar disorder was just under the line of being under control,” he said. “It wasn’t easily detected. Most people thought I was weird.”He always sensed something was askew. When he was 15, his father took him to a doctor who diagnosed “bad nerves” and prescribed Valium.As his career progressed, things started to unravel, and his behavior grew increasingly erratic. He was given a diagnosis of bipolar disorder at age 35. His manager dropped him as a client, and he was fired from a conducting job in Vermont.It was there he met Caroline Whiddon, who had been the chairwoman of the Youth Orchestra Division of the League of American Orchestras. She had been given a diagnosis of depression and anxiety disorder more than 20 years earlier, and had played French horn professionally, which she described as “a notorious instrument that’s known for breaking people.” Mr. Braunstein reached out to her about creating an orchestra that welcomed musicians with mental illnesses and family members and friends who support them. “I never thought I’d go back to playing French horn again,” she said. “Ronald gave me back the gift of music.”Mr. Braunstein called his new venture the Me2/Orchestra, because when he told other musicians about his mental health diagnosis, they’d often respond, “Me too.”Since the term #MeToo is now associated with sexual assault cases, people sometimes ask if the orchestra is connected to that cause. “It gives us an opportunity to explain that we were founded in 2011,” in Burlington, Vt., “before the Me Too movement began,” Ms. Whiddon said.In 2014, a second orchestra, Me2/Boston, was created. In between, in 2013, Mr. Braunstein and Ms. Whiddon got married.Each orchestra performs between six and eight times a year. Each has about 50 musicians, both amateur and professional, ranging in age from 13 to over 80, and they rehearse once a week. New affiliate ensembles in Portland, Ore., and Atlanta follow similar schedules.Mr. Braunstein gives free private lessons to those who want to polish their skills.Me2/Orchestra is a nonprofit, and the musicians are all volunteers. Ms. Whiddon raises money through an annual letter-writing campaign to cover expenses, with support from more than 100 donors.“When we perform at a hospital, center for the homeless or correctional facility,” Ms. Whiddon said, “the cost of that performance is covered by corporate sponsorships, grants or donations from individuals, so the performance is free to those who attend.”Participating in Me2/Boston allowed Nancy-Lee Mauger, age 55, to pick up the French horn again. The note on the rehearsal door — “This is a stigma-free zone” — made her feel welcome.Ms. Mauger had played French horn until her mental illness made it impossible to perform. She has diagnoses of dissociative identity disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder and depression.“In 2009, I was playing a Christmas Eve gig,” she said. “It was at the same church, with the same quintet, choir and music that I had played every Christmas Eve for 15 years. This particular night felt different. I had trouble focusing my eyes. At one point, I could not read music or play my horn.”It lasted about two minutes, and she thought she was having a stroke. In fact, it was her mental illness.“I learned that little parts of me would come out and try to play my horn during gigs,” she said. “The problem was that they didn’t know how to play. This became such an obvious problem that I quit.”Now, after four years of intensive therapy, she is able to play again.At each performance, a few musicians briefly talk about their mental illnesses and take questions from the audience. “Instead of thinking people with mental illnesses are lazy or dangerous, they see what we’re capable of,” Mr. Braunstein said. “It has a positive effect on all of us.”Jessica Stuart, now 34, stopped playing violin in her mid-20s when she was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. “Joining the Me2/Orchestra in Boston in 2014 was the first time I had played in years,” she said. “I cannot count the ways the orchestra helps me. It has allowed me to overcome the shame I felt about living with mental illness. I no longer feel I have to hide an important part of my life from the rest of the world.”Jessie Bodell, a 26-year-old flute player who has borderline personality disorder, said he finds rehearsals fun, relaxed and democratic.He noted that unlike most orchestras, Me2 doesn’t have first, second or third positions. “There isn’t an underlying, tense, competitive feeling here,” he said.“We’ve seen when you sing or play an instrument, it doesn’t just activate one part of your brain,” said Dr. Collins of the National Institutes of Health. “A whole constellation of brain areas becomes active. Our response to music is separate from other interventions such as asking people to recall memories or listen to another language.”Partnering with Dr. Collins on Sound Health is Renée Fleming, the renowned soprano and artistic adviser to the Kennedy Center. “The first goal is to move music therapy forward as a discipline,” she said. “The second is to educate the public and enlighten people about the power of music to heal.”AdvertisementSupported byDrugs like buprenorphine could sharply curb the nation’s opioid overdose crisis. But federal laws make it difficult for people who need such medications to get them. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.A federally funded report released last week came to a striking conclusion: More than 80 percent of the roughly two million people struggling with opioid addiction in the United States are not being treated with the medications most likely to nudge them into remission or prevent them from overdosing. This denial of care is so pervasive and egregious, the report’s authors found, that it amounts to a serious ethical breach on the part of both health care providers and the criminal justice system.The Food and Drug Administration has approved three medications to treat opioid use disorder — methadone, buprenorphine and naltrexone. All of them work by binding to the brain’s opiate receptors in a way that reduces the cravings that people addicted to drugs like OxyContin and heroin experience, but without causing the same euphoric high as those drugs. Methadone and buprenorphine have proved especially effective. Patients who take one of those medications are half as likely to die from their addiction; they are also more likely to stay in treatment, and they tend to have better long-term health outcomes.Neither drug is new or experimental — methadone was approved to treat opioid addiction in 1972 and buprenorphine in 2002. Some countries have shown that increasing access to them can significantly drive down the rate of overdose deaths. In France, for example, policies that enabled more doctors to prescribe buprenorphine helped lead to a tenfold increase in the number of people whose opioid use disorder was being treated and to a nearly 80 percent decline in overdose deaths in just four years.Yet, many drug courts and most residential treatment programs in the United States prevent participants from using these medications; and the rehabilitation programs that do offer them rarely offer all three options. The treatments are not available in most emergency rooms, as The Times has reported, even though studies show that patients given buprenorphine in an E.R. are twice as likely to be in treatment a month later than those who are given an information pamphlet. They are also not available in most prisons, even though a significant portion of the federal inmate population suffers from opioid use disorder. Opioid overdose is a leading cause of death among those who’ve been recently released.Part of the problem is stigma and a profound lack of awareness. Methadone and buprenorphine are opioids. They are weaker than drugs like OxyContin, fentanyl and heroin that have fueled the current crisis, but many law enforcement and medical professionals still see them as trading one addiction for another. Or they mistakenly believe that the medications should be used only temporarily, to help wean patients off stronger opioids. Or they see them as an optional complement to behavioral interventions instead of an essential component of opioid addiction management.None of these perceptions is supported by the balance of scientific evidence. There’s also a logistical barrier to getting these drugs into the hands of people who need them. Doctors are allowed to give methadone only at specialized clinics where patients must report every day for their dose. Lines at such clinics are often long, and according to the report, which came from the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, Medicaid does not cover the treatment in at least 14 states.Buprenorphine is available by prescription, but health care professionals must obtain a special license to write those prescriptions, a process that requires them to complete hours of additional training, grant the Drug Enforcement Administration access to all of their patient records and agree to strict limits on the number of patients they can treat with the medication. In many states, would-be buprenorphine prescribers also must submit to stringent criteria for insurance reimbursement. These restrictions also are not justified by scientific evidence. They are not employed by other countries, and they are not used to manage the treatment of other chronic medical conditions in the United States.Fewer than seven percent of the nation’s doctors have gone through the trouble of clearing these hurdles. As a result, more than half of all counties have no licensed buprenorphine prescriber at all. That’s too bad. According to the national academies report, just about anyone with opioid use disorder — teenagers, pregnant women, people with other serious medical conditions — can be treated safely and effectively with the medication.President Trump declared a public health emergency to respond to the opioid crisis in 2017, but so far that declaration has led to very little meaningful action. Congress passed a suite of opioid bills in the fall, but that legislation contained almost no funding. And in most states, strategies that might truly mitigate the disaster — from evidence-based addiction treatments like methadone and buprenorphine to proven harm-reduction approaches like needle exchanges and safe injection sites — remain vastly underutilized or outright illegal.Public health forecasts indicate that the opioid overdose epidemic might claim another 500,000 lives in the next decade. Many of those deaths could be avoided — if existing technologies would just be put to use.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reggie UgwuThere are no shortage of haunting images in “Us,” the new horror film from Jordan Peele. But many of the movie’s most effective jolts are heard rather than seen, from the chilling score (including a macabre riff on Luniz’s “I Got 5 on It”) on down.No sound in the film is more likely to induce nightmares than the voice of its main villain, Red. Played by Lupita Nyong’o in a dual performance (she is also Adelaide, Red’s non-villainous doppelgänger), Red becomes the movie’s most unsettling enigma the moment she first opens her mouth.(Warning: If you haven’t seen “Us,” moderate spoilers about the character follow).In a showstopping monologue at the top of the second act, Red’s speaking voice — a dyspeptic rasp, as if her vocal cords have been gnawed through by rats — suggests someone who has seen the unspeakable, and takes an already eerie performance by Nyong’o to a darker, unearthly realm.[Read the review of “Us,” and watch how Jordan Peele builds suspense in the film.]The sound has provoked strong reactions in audiences and critics. In his review, New York magazine’s David Edelstein described it as “the whistle of someone whose throat has been cut” and “a rush of acrid air from a tomb.”Here’s where the voice actually came from, according to our interviews with both Nyong’o and Peele.Even in his script, Peele kept details about who Red was close to the vest. One of the few clues he did include pertained to the voice. He described it simply as “scratchy” and hinted at a mysterious back story.“I described it as a voice that hadn’t been used in years,” Peele said.Those scarce details gave Nyong’o — who worked closely with Peele in developing the character — plenty of latitude. At a fashion event before preproduction, she found unlikely inspiration when she heard a speaker who reminded her of Peele’s description. It was Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who had spasmodic dysphonia, a neurological disorder that causes involuntary spasms of the larynx. Learning about the disorder helped ground her eventual performance.“I was fascinated, and I started doing research,” Nyong’o said. “I met with people who have the condition and built it from there.”Does Red have spasmodic dysphonia, or just sound like she does? We may never know. But Nyong’o’s research convinced her that the disorder was a plausible consequence of the grim back story Peele’s script had implied.“It’s not really understood why it happens, or how it happens,” she said. “It could be a trauma in your life — someone dying, or a physical assault. It varies. For me, it felt very organic as an inspiration for Red, who’s had this kind of strangled past.”[Read about Lupita Nyong’o and her work on the movie.]Working with the vocal coach Beth McGuire, who also worked with Nyong’o on “Black Panther” and the 2016 Broadway play “Eclipsed,” the actress took her real-world inspiration and suffused it with ghostly malevolence.“Red’s character is very id-driven, so one of the things that we were looking for was for that to come across in the quality of her voice — just the raw emotion, the raw rage,” Nyong’o said.Peele first heard what Nyong’o had come up with during preproduction, when the actress pulled him aside for an informal audition of the voice and her vision for the big monologue.“She sat me down and said ‘Are you ready?’” the director recalled. He wasn’t.“It was like nothing I had ever heard,” Peele said. “So creepy.”AdvertisementSupported byA “formulation” gathers the biological, psychological and social factors that lead to a mental illness — and offers clues to the way out of suffering.By Lisa PryorContributing Opinion WriterWhen psychiatry is in the news, so often it is for a controversy over diagnosis. Do psychiatrists mislabel grief as depression? Should internet addiction be considered a mental health disorder? Are children with behavioral difficulties too often tagged as having attention deficit hyperactivity disorder?With such a focus on diagnosis and classification, you would be forgiven for thinking that psychiatry is a profession devoted merely to sorting and labeling humans. This is highlighted by the common description of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders — the thick volume published by the American Psychiatric Association listing the various diseases of the mind — as the “bible” of psychiatry.In reality, the D.S.M., the abbreviation by which it is commonly known, is more like a dictionary than a bible. It is an explanation of the human mind no more than a dictionary is an explanation of literature.There is another psychiatry concept that gets less of an airing in public but that could be more helpful for understanding how many psychiatrists think about the mind — and how any of us can think about mental suffering. This concept is the psychiatric formulation.If a diagnosis is a label, a formulation is more like a story. In a few sentences, a formulation gathers up all the biological, psychological and social factors that have led to a person becoming unwell and considers how these factors interconnect. In doing so, it provides clues to the pathway out of suffering.This story might take into account the individual’s genetic predisposition for mental illness, attachment to a primary caregiver as a child, developmental trauma, intellectual functioning, economic circumstances, illicit drug use or complications created by physical illness, such as thyroid disease or chronic pain.As you may have noticed, these factors are not located solely within the brain, nor are they solely located within the individual.For me, a medical doctor training to be a psychiatrist, the formulation is a reminder that however far our understanding of the brain advances, in terms of its myriad receptors and neurotransmitters, this organ never exists in a vacuum.The brain exists within a human body, which in turn exists within a family, a culture, a society, an economy. When factors outside the brain contribute to mental illness, then the solutions to those problems may also exist outside the brain. Indeed, some of the most valuable mental health interventions we have might be preventive. I am thinking here of measures to reduce poverty and child abuse, for example.Let’s consider an example of a formulation. The diagnosis “major depressive disorder” may not tell you much about a person, but consider a formulation for an individual, which might go something like this: “Forty-six-year-old single mother of two presents with a three-month history of depressive symptoms including low mood, insomnia and poor appetite (with weight loss). Her condition was precipitated by psychosocial stressors, including unstable housing and credit-card debt since the breakdown of her marriage eight months ago. This is on a background of an introverted and passive temperament and a childhood in which her parents encouraged dependency, and this was followed by a marriage in which her husband had complete control of finances. There is a strong family history of depression; her mother and maternal grandfather were hospitalized for this condition. Protective factors include a strong network of friends and a willingness to engage with therapy.”Obviously people who all have the same diagnosis of “major depressive disorder” can have different formulations. The combination of predisposing, precipitating, perpetuating and protective factors will be different for everyone. If a diagnosis is a stamp, a formulation is more like a fingerprint, unique to each individual.In the hypothetical example above, treatment may not be limited to medication; it might include a suite of other interventions. Long-term psychotherapy to help build confidence and a sense of self-efficacy might be one element, as would other measures that on the face of it might not seem to be within the realm of psychiatric treatment. For example, it would make sense to provide assistance for obtaining safe and affordable housing if unstable living arrangements helped cause spiraling feelings of hopelessness. Similarly, helping the person find a course to learn budgeting skills or get a job might be beneficial.If you have come to believe from what you have read that psychiatry is the study of the isolated and disembodied brain, you might be surprised to learn how important this component of the psychiatric process is and how long it has been around.One of the early key proponents of this biopsychosocial model of mental illness was George L. Engel, an internist and psychiatrist who practiced in Rochester, N.Y., for most of his career, starting in the 1940s. Working with both physical and psychiatric illness, he was well placed to consider the relationship between the mind and the body, between emotions and disease.He set out his ideas succinctly in 1977 in a landmark article in the journal Science. In this essay, Engel articulated why psychiatry should not be drawn too far into the medical model of disease, and why, in fact, medicine itself would do well to look beyond this model, which he suggested did not fully account for mental illness or physical illness, for schizophrenia or even diabetes.The biopsychosocial formulation dovetails nicely with more recent developments in mental health, such as trauma-informed care, a model developed for patients who have suffered traumatic experiences such as abuse and assault. The goal is to avoid traumatizing them again in offering the very services meant to help them. Often this approach is summarized as moving from thinking, “What is wrong with you?” to considering, “What happened to you?” Like the formulation, a label is reframed as a story.The biopsychosocial formulation also offers much to all of us, when we think about our own well-being and mental health, the factors leading to our own flourishing, or its opposite.None of us are static objects, we have histories and stories, we change over time. Who we are today is influenced by the sum of the things that have happened to us along the way, but how things are today is not how they are always destined to be.So when something is wrong we would do well to ask not just, “What is my diagnosis?” but instead, “What is my formulation?”Lisa Pryor, a medical doctor, is the author, most recently, of “A Small Book About Drugs” and a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byAs the drug becomes more popular, concerns have been raised that its use can lead to psychotic disorders. Here’s what scientists know for sure, and what they don’t.By Benedict CareyNearly a century after the film “Reefer Madness” alarmed the nation, some policymakers and doctors are again becoming concerned about the dangers of marijuana, although the reefers are long gone. Experts now distinguish between the “new cannabis” — legal, highly potent, available in tabs, edibles and vapes — and the old version, a far milder weed passed around in joints. Levels of T.H.C., the chemical that produces marijuana’s high, have been rising for at least three decades, and it’s now possible in some states to buy vape cartridges containing little but the active ingredient.The concern is focused largely on the link between heavy usage and psychosis in young people. Doctors first suspected a link some 70 years ago, and the evidence has only accumulated since then. In a forthcoming book, “Tell Your Children,” Alex Berenson, a former Times reporter, argues that legalization is putting a generation at higher risk of schizophrenia and other psychotic syndromes. Critics, including leading researchers, have called the argument overblown, and unfaithful to the science.Yes, but so can overuse of caffeine, nicotine, alcohol, stimulants and hallucinogens. Psychosis is a symptom: a temporary disorientation that resembles a waking dream, with odd, imagined sights and sounds, often accompanied by paranoia or an ominous sensation. The vast majority of people who have this kind of psychotic experience do not go on to develop a persistent condition such as schizophrenia, which is characterized by episodes of psychosis that recur for years, as well as cognitive problems and social withdrawal.That is the big question, and so far the evidence is not strong enough to answer one way or the other. Even top scientists who specialize in marijuana research are divided, drawing opposite conclusions from the same data. “I’ve been doing this research for 25 years, and it’s polarizing even among academics,” said Margaret Haney, a professor of neurobiology at Columbia University Medical Center. “This is what the marijuana field is like.”The debate centers on the distinction between correlation and causation. People with psychotic problems often use cannabis regularly; this is a solid correlation, backed by numerous studies. But it is unclear which came first, the cannabis habit or the psychoses. Children who later develop schizophrenia often seem to retreat into their own world, stalked periodically by bizarre fears and fantasies well outside the range of usual childhood imagination, and well before they are exposed to cannabis. Those who go on to become regular marijuana users often use other substances as well, including alcohol and cigarettes, making it more difficult for researchers to untangle causation.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Consider cigarettes, the least mind-altering of these substances. In a 2015 study, a team led by Dr. Kenneth S. Kendler of Virginia Commonwealth University analyzed medical data on nearly two million people in Sweden. The data followed the individuals over time, from young adulthood, when most schizophrenia diagnoses occur, to middle age. Smoking was a predictor for later development of the disorder, and in what doctors call a dose-response relationship: the more a person smoked, the higher the risk. Yet nicotine attracts nowhere near the concern that cannabis does, in part because the two drugs are so different in their everyday effects: mildly stimulated versus stoned. Indeed, some scientists have studied nicotine as a partial treatment for schizophrenia, to blunt the disorders effects on thinking and memory.Yes. Brain scientists know very little about the underlying biology of psychotic conditions, other than that hundreds of common gene variants are likely involved. Schizophrenia, for instance, is not a uniform disorder but an umbrella term for an array of unexplained problems involving recurrent psychosis, and other common symptoms. Even so, there is circumstantial evidence for a biological mechanism. Psychotic disorders tend to emerge in late adolescence or early adulthood, during or after a period of rapid brain development. In the teenage years, the brain strips away unneeded or redundant connections between brain cells, in a process called synaptic pruning. This editing is concentrated in the prefrontal cortex, the region behind the forehead where thinking and planning occur — and the region that is perturbed in psychotic conditions. The region is rich with so-called CB1 receptors, which are involved in the pruning, and are engaged by cannabis use. And alterations to the pruning process may well increase schizophrenia risk, according to recent research at the Broad Institute of M.I.T. and Harvard. In a 2016 analysis, scientists there found that people with the disorder often have a gene variant that appears to accelerate the pruning process.Experts may debate whether cannabis use can lead to psychotic disorders, but they mostly agree on how to minimize one’s risk.Psychotic conditions tend to run in families, which suggests there is an inherited genetic vulnerability. Indeed, according to some studies, people prone to or at heightened risk of psychosis seem to experience the effects of cannabis differently than peers without such a history. The users experience a more vivid high, but they also are more likely to experience psychosis-like effects such as paranoia.The evidence so far indicates that one’s familial risk for psychotic disorders outweighs any added effect of cannabis use. In a 2014 study, a team led by Ashley C. Proal and Dr. Lynn E. DeLisi of Harvard Medical School recruited cannabis users with and without a family history of schizophrenia, as well as non-users with and without such a history. The researchers made sure the cannabis users did not use other drugs in addition, a factor that muddied earlier studies. The result: there was a heightened schizophrenia risk among people with a family history, regardless of cannabis use.“My study clearly shows that cannabis does not cause schizophrenia by itself,” said Dr. DeLisi. “Rather, a genetic predisposition is necessary. It is highly likely, based on the results of this study and others, that cannabis use during adolescence through to age 25, when the brain is maturing and at its peak of growth in a genetically vulnerable individual, can initiate the onset of schizophrenia.”Because marijuana has been illegal for so long, research that could settle the question has been sorely lacking, although that has begun to change. The National Institutes of Health have launched a $300 million project that will track thousands of children from the age of 9 or 10 through adolescence, and might help clarify causation.For the near future, expert opinions likely will be mixed. “Usually it is the research types who are doing ‘the sky is falling’ bit, but here it is switched,” said Dr. Jay Geidd, a professor of psychiatry at the University of California, San Diego. “The researchers are wary of overselling the dangers, as was clearly done in the past. However, clinicians overwhelmingly endorse seeing many more adolescents with ‘paranoia’” of some kind. AdvertisementSupported byFictionBy Jessica WeisbergTHE GIRLS AT 17 SWANN STREET By Yara ZgheibTHE CARE AND FEEDING OF RAVENOUSLY HUNGRY GIRLS By Anissa GrayNo one seems to diet anymore. People may go on a “cleanse” or attempt to “eat clean,” but their goal is grander than mere weight loss — they’re seeking a vague sense of equanimity that’s become known as “wellness.” The modern woman aspires to be “strong” and “healthy”; she does not care (or not explicitly) about fitting into a smaller dress size. “Self-care” is trendy, while self-denial is not, even if both require skipping dessert.This new, reverent language around dieting offers innumerable euphemisms for eating disorders. When Anna, the main character of Yara Zgheib’s debut, “The Girls at 17 Swann Street,” arrives at the clinic that gives the novel its title, she informs a concerned therapist that she is vegan. “I also avoid processed foods, refined sugars, high fructose corn syrup and trans fats,” she says with pride. The 26-year-old Parisian, a former dancer, sees herself as health-conscious, when really she is starving. At intake, she is 88 pounds. The first of a series of medical reports, printed throughout the novel to mark Anna’s progress, states that she suffers from a dozen different conditions including “malnutrition — severe.”This early exchange between Anna and her therapist is one of just a few moments in the book that reference contemporary buzzwords, that feel current (another counselor discourages the use of “triggering” language). Eating disorders are often considered a contagion of popular culture, but the residents of 17 Swann Street don’t have the energy to watch films or discuss internet memes. Recovery is all-encompassing. The clinic is in Missouri, but it could be anywhere. Anna and the others live in their own private time zone. They eat six times a day. If they watch television, it’s reruns of the Olympics from years earlier.What distinguishes Anna from the other gauzy young women at the clinic is that she maintains a daily tether to the outside — her husband, Matthias, who visits every night, between dinner and evening snack. Though the novel’s present tracks Anna’s time in treatment, there are frequent flashbacks to her blissful former life with Matthias in Paris, vignettes in which food often plays a central role. On an early date, Anna trades her uneaten olives for his discarded pizza crusts. Later on, they are too settled in their happiness to address her anorexia, even when she becomes so weak that she can’t enjoy roller coasters, beach trips or sex. The chapters set in Swann Street are written in the first person, in tight, understated prose that conjures Anna’s utter exhaustion. “I do not laugh very often anymore. Very little is funny. When I do, it sounds different,” Anna thinks. The passages about her life with Matthias are written in the third person, in lush, descriptive sentences.But the true love story of this novel is not between Anna and Matthias, but between Anna and the other residents. “Anorexia is the same story told every time by a different girl. Her name does not matter,” Anna reflects. This shared diagnosis leads to a fierce solidarity among the residents. When one girl strains to finish her meal, the others distract her with horoscopes, word games and quiet kindnesses. “No girl left at the table alone” is their golden rule. They are too ill to find relief in the “body positivity” movement happening outside and online; the only people who can understand their overwhelming fear of fatness are one another. Anna’s illness may not be unique, but her story is a singular celebration of the lifesaving power of community and small gestures.Eating disorders are associated with the young, white and privileged — the kind of women who tend to be in treatment at Swann Street. But Anissa Gray’s debut novel, “The Care and Feeding of Ravenously Hungry Girls,” complicates this stereotype. One of the novel’s narrators, Viola Butler, is a 40-something black woman with an eating disorder. She is by no means a girl — she’s a successful therapist who drives a Lexus — but, like the residents at Swann Street, she is addicted to a regimen of excessive exercise and calorie counting. Control, or the illusion of it, is her drug of choice.The central story line of the novel follows the Butler family as it responds to the unexpected arrest of Viola’s older sister. Althea Marie Butler-Cochran was once a widely respected member of her community, a restaurateur and philanthropist, who was caught skimming money from her charities. After her conviction, Viola and their younger sister, Lillian, upend their lives to raise Althea’s teenage daughters in the small Michigan town where they grew up.It’s a fast-paced, intriguing story, but the novel’s real achievement is its uncommon perceptiveness on the origins and variations of addiction. The three Butler sisters, who take turns narrating the story, each have their own preferred method of self-sabotage. Althea steals, Lillian is unfaithful to her husband, Viola struggles with bulimia. In a particularly excruciating scene, she checks into a highway motel with a load of junk food and proceeds to eat, then purge, it all. Afterward, she feels a blitz of relief: “Xanax couldn’t make me feel any mellower.” As soon as the calm recedes, she reaches for a fresh pack of Oreos.Gray’s novel unfolds like a mystery, with each chapter revealing new information about how the Butler sisters found themselves in this situation. This is not a whodunit: Althea is unambiguously guilty. The mystery is why she did it, or why Lillian cheats, or Viola binges. Details emerge about their traumatic childhoods that help to explain their perennial discontent, what Viola describes as “the thing in you that cries out, endlessly, More, please.” By the end of the novel, this ravenous hunger has been satiated, at least somewhat, by the sisters’ renewed affection for one another, something they had each been craving for a long time.Jessica Weisberg is the author of “Asking for a Friend.”THE GIRLS AT 17 SWANN STREET By Yara Zgheib 370 pp. St. Martin’s Press. $27.99. THE CARE AND FEEDING OF RAVENOUSLY HUNGRY GIRLS By Anissa Gray 294 pp. Berkley. $26.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reed AbelsonIn a scathing decision released Tuesday, a federal judge in Northern California ruled that a unit of UnitedHealth Group, the giant health insurer, had created internal policies aimed at effectively discriminating against patients with mental health and substance abuse disorders to save money.U.S. Chief Magistrate Judge Joseph C. Spero found that United Behavioral Health, the insurer’s unit that administers treatments for mental illness and addiction in private health plans, had violated its fiduciary duty under federal law.In his 106-page decision, Judge Spero described the company’s guidelines as “unreasonable and an abuse of discretion” and having been “infected” by financial incentives meant to restrict access to care.“There is an excessive emphasis on addressing acute symptoms and stabilizing crises while ignoring the effective treatment of members’ underlying conditions,” he said. He dismissed much of the testimony by UnitedHealth’s experts as “evasive — and even deceptive.”Patients said they were denied care as soon as they appeared stable. One of the plaintiffs in the case said in a filing her son, who struggled with substance abuse, died after he was forced to leave a residential treatment facility when the insurer denied coverage.“In our view, it’s a monumental win for mental health and substance abuse patients,” said D. Brian Hufford, an attorney with Zuckerman Spaeder, who, along with Psych-Appeal, a private law firm specializing in insurance coverage for mental health issues, is representing the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs are part of a class-action lawsuit against United Behavioral Health, and say they were covered under the United plans from 2011 to 2017 and denied care.In the aftermath of the ruling, the company maintained that it had not failed to provide the proper care.“We look forward to demonstrating in the next phase of this case how our members received appropriate care,” said UnitedHealth in an emailed statement. “We remain committed to providing our members with access to the right care for the treatment of mental health conditions and substance use disorders.”Judge Spero is expected to reach a final judgment in the next few months.The case represents the latest development in the contentious debate over how health insurance companies cover mental health and substance abuse disorders, as compared to medical conditions like diabetes, multiple sclerosis and asthma. In spite of the passage of a federal law, the Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008, patients have long complained about the difficulty of getting care covered, especially when they are in no immediate danger.When the federal parity law prevented insurers from placing sharp limits on behavioral health coverage, the companies “came up with an even more insidious approach,” Mr. Hufford said, by developing internal rules that focused on providing expensive outpatient and residential care only when patients were acutely ill.Once the acute condition was treated, the companies would reduce or deny services, he said. The care “wasn’t addressing the underlying issue or the chronic condition,” he said.Advocates praised the judge’s decision as making clear that insurers cannot ignore standards that would be applied to other forms of medical care in determining whether they will cover a mental health or substance abuse treatment. “This should put health plans on notice that they simply can’t make up the rules as they go along,” said Angela Kimball, the national director of public policy and advocacy for NAMI, the National Alliance on Mental Illness.Such denials of care are not limited to UnitedHealth, said Patrick Kennedy, the mental health advocate and former member of Congress who is pushing for stronger enforcement of federal and state parity laws. The judge’s ruling that UnitedHealth had not complied with the law is an “independent validation of what we have as advocates been saying for 11 years since this law was passed,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Heather MurphyAn article this week about Jo Cameron, who has lived for 71 years without experiencing pain or anxiety because she has a rare genetic mutation, prompted questions from New York Times readers.The notion that the same gene could be responsible for the way a person processes physical and psychological pain left many perplexed: Aren’t they totally different? Or does her story hint that sensitivity to one type of pain might be intertwined with sensitivity to another?Childbirth, Ms. Cameron said, felt like “a tickle.” She often relies on her husband to alert her when she is bleeding, bruised or burned because nothing hurts.When someone close to her has died, she said, she has felt sad but “I don’t go to pieces.” She cannot recall ever having been riled by anything — even a recent car crash. On an anxiety disorder questionnaire, she scored zero out of 21.“I drive people mad by being cheerful,” she said.[Read more about the woman who has never felt pain or anxiety.]Here’s a bit about what’s known:No. Before encountering Ms. Cameron, the scientists who studied her case worked with other patients who did not experience pain.“Reduced anxiety has not really been noted before in the other pain insensitivity disorders we work on,” said Dr. James Cox, a senior lecturer from the Molecular Nociception Group at University College London.He also said that given Ms. Cameron had gone more than six decades without realizing just how unusual she was, there could be others like her. A number of such individuals contacted The Times after the article was published.“I also had the children and no pain,” wrote Juanita Hoffman, 81, of Dayton, Ohio. “I thought family and friends who complained were just drama queens.”Asked about her mental state, she wrote: “No, I have never experienced anxiety. I have always been content and happy.”Dr. Cox said he believed that Ms. Cameron’s reduced anxiety was “related to increased signaling at CB1 receptors,” or cannabinoid receptors, which are known to help the body deal with stressful situations. (Notably, they are activated by the THC in cannabis.)Block the cannabinoid receptors and anxiety will increase; boost the cannabinoid receptors and anxiety will fall, studies have shown. The receptors also affect how people experience physical pain.No, it’s more complicated than that and lots of research is still needed, said Dr. T.H. Eric Bui of the Center for Anxiety and Traumatic Stress Disorders and Complicated Grief Program at Massachusetts General Hospital. What we do know, he said, is that “brain regions that process emotional and physical pain overlap.”In another example of how mysteriously intertwined the two types of pain can be can be, he noted that acetaminophen (the active ingredient in Tylenol, among other pain relievers) had been shown to decrease the emotional pain that comes with rejection.Naomi Eisenberger, a professor in the University of California, Los Angeles, psychology department, believes so. Dr. Eisenberger studies the similarities in the way that the brain processes physical pain and the “social pain” that results from rejection.She said she had repeatedly found that “people who are more sensitive to physical pain are more upset by rejection.”In general, yes, according to some pain-management experts.Adam Woo, a consultant in pain and anesthesia at King’s College Hospital in London, has worked with thousands of patients dealing with pain. Patients with high levels of anxiety tend to be more sensitive to pain, he has found.“If you have anxiety, it makes your perception of pain worse,” he said. And if two patients are facing the exact same kind of injury, the one with more anxiety tends to have a “higher complaint score,” he said.Debra Kissen, executive director of Light on Anxiety, a treatment center in Chicago, believes that some people truly are just more sensitive — as in they seem to feel more intensely. That said, she has observed the way that anxiety and physical pain can amplify each other.Afflicted with chronic pain, a person may start to feel anxious that they have no control over their body. Then their anxiety may increase their focus on the pain, exacerbating it. Treat either one and it will sometimes help both, she said.What she finds most intriguing about the two kinds of pain is the consistency in her patients’ answers to a choice. “I’ll ask someone, ‘You can either stub your toe and it hurts an eight, or feel emotional despair,’” she said.Patients always pick the toe.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tyler Pager and Ashley Southall[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]An ordeal that ended with police officers shooting a half-naked man in Queens on Sunday afternoon began just before 3 p.m.The man, who is in his 30s, first crashed his car into a police car in front of the 111th Precinct in Bayside, the police said. He then doused both cars in accelerant fluid and lit his own car on fire. As police officers approached, the man, who was not wearing pants or underwear, lunged at them with a 12-inch kitchen knife.Two police officers then fired eight gunshots, striking the man in his torso and leg. The man was transported to NewYork-Presbyterian/Queens hospital, where he remained in stable condition on Sunday night. The two officers were also transported to a hospital to be evaluated.The police did not identify the man but said he was not previously known to the officers in the precinct.Rodney Harrison, the Police Department’s chief of patrol, said at a news conference that it was likely the man had “some mental issues.”In recent years, the department has tried to increase training for officers about how to handle situations involving emotionally disturbed people. But less than 12,000 of the city’s nearly 37,000 officers have gone through the training. Emergency calls for those situations have nearly doubled over the last decade, to about 179,000 last year, according to the police.Officers are often unaware if a person is mentally ill when they respond to a call.On March 5, police oficers responding to a 911 call in Harlem shot a man, Michael Cordero, after he claimed he was armed and then lunged at them with an item in his hand that turned out to be a wallet. Mr. Cordero had several previous arrests, and his family said he was being treated for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.Last year, the attorney general’s office began investigating the police killing of Saheed Vassell, who in April was fatally shot by officers who mistook the pipe he was holding for a gun. Mr. Vassell had bipolar disorder, and his family said that the police at his local precinct knew of his condition.In both of those cases, the police have said, the responding officers were unaware of the men’s mental histories.The city adopted crisis intervention training in 2015 but has been slow to roll it out. Police officials have said they need more money to accelerate training, and Mayor Bill de Blasio allocated $5.3 million in his recent budget proposal to train more officers.On Tuesday the mayor’s wife, Chirlane McCray, will testify in front of City Council about ThriveNYC, a nearly $1 billion plan to address mental health in New York City. Despite Mr. de Blasio touting the program, which Ms. McCray oversees, as “revolutionary,”  it has faced questions about its effectiveness.AdvertisementSupported byWord of the DayBy The Learning Network: inappropriately clever or amusing in tone_________The word facetious has appeared in 23 articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on March 12 in “Your Environment Is Cleaner. Your Immune System Has Never Been So Unprepared” by Matt Richtel:“I tell people, when they drop food on the floor, please pick it up and eat it,” said Dr. Meg Lemon, a dermatologist in Denver who treats people with allergies and autoimmune disorders.… Dr. Lemon’s prescription for a better immune system doesn’t end there. “You should not only pick your nose, you should eat it,” she said.She’s referring, with a facetious touch, to the fact our immune system can become disrupted if it doesn’t have regular interactions with the natural world.AdvertisementSupported byBy Denise GellenePaul Greengard, an American neuroscientist whose 15-year quest to understand how brain cells communicate provided new insights into psychological diseases and earned him a Nobel Prize, and who used his entire $400,000 award to create an academic prize in memory of the mother he never knew, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 93.His death was confirmed by Rockefeller University, where he had worked since 1983.Dr. Greengard received the 2000 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Dr. Arvid Carlsson of Sweden and Dr. Eric R. Kandel of the United States for independent discoveries related to the ways brain cells relay messages about movement, memory and mental states. Their discoveries offered new insights into disorders linked to errors in cell communication, such as Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and drug addiction.Dr. Greengard’s research described how cells react to dopamine, an important chemical messenger in the brain. His work provided the underlying science for many antipsychotic drugs, which modulate the strength of chemical signals in the brain.“Our work shows the details of how dopamine produces these effects — in other words, what’s wrong in these diseases and what can be done to correct them,” Dr. Greengard said.Dr. Greengard’s research extended from the late 1960s to the mid-1980s. For much of the period, his work was ignored. A majority of biologists believed brain cells communicated through the use of electrical signals. To them, the only thing that mattered was whether a cell fired off a signal.“There was a point when I thought they would not be accepted in my lifetime,” Dr. Greengard said in a 2011 interview, referring to the results of his many experiments.Ultimately, Dr. Greengard showed that electrical and chemical signaling worked in tandem. He discovered that chemical groups called phosphates within cells trigger a cascade of chemical changes that amplify the dopamine signal. This response, in turn, makes it possible for cells to fire electrical signals. Today the field he pioneered, called signal transduction, is an important area of study.Paul Greengard was born on Dec. 11, 1925, in Brooklyn. His father was a vaudeville performer who became a perfume salesman; his mother, a homemaker, died giving birth to him. When Dr. Greengard was 13 months old, his father, who was Jewish, married an Episcopalian who raised Dr. Greengard and his two sisters in the Christian tradition. He did not know about his mother until he was in college; he needed information about his family background to fill out a form.He felt the loss of his mother deeply; he had no mementos of her, not even a photograph. After he received the Nobel Prize, he used his $400,000 award to establish the Pearl Meister Greengard Prize for women in biomedical research, in honor of his mother.“Since there’s not a shred of physical evidence that my mother ever existed, I wanted to do something to make her less abstract,” he told The New York Times in 2006.He attended public schools in Brooklyn and Queens, graduating from Forest Hills High School. He enlisted in the Navy, which sent him to electronic technician school and then assigned him to a team at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology that was working on an early-warning radar system to protect American ships during World War II.After his military service, he went to Hamilton College, a small liberal arts school in Clinton, N.Y., where he majored in physics and mathematics. His father and stepmother did not want him to attend college — “They were both very anti-intellectual,” he told an interviewer — but the G.I. Bill covered his tuition. He received his bachelor’s degree in 1948 and made plans to go on to graduate school.He was drawn to theoretical physics, but was concerned about conducting research that might contribute to the development of nuclear weapons, an emerging area of postwar research. “I thought there were better ways of spending my life than trying to destroy mankind,” he said.So he entered the nascent field of biophysics, which uses math and physics to solve biological problems. Though most biophysicists were studying electrical signaling in nerve cells, he chose to study chemical signaling, figuring it would be easier to make a mark in a less developed field.Dr. Greengard received his doctorate in 1953 from Johns Hopkins University, one of the few institutions that offered a degree in biophysics at the time. After five years of postdoctoral work and a stint in the pharmaceutical industry, he joined the Yale University faculty in 1968. He moved to Rockefeller University in 1983 and spent the rest of his career there.Toward the end of his life, his research turned to understanding the cell signaling defects in specific disorders, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, schizophrenia and depression.Dr. Greengard was married three times and divorced twice. Survivors include his wife, the sculptor Ursula von Rydingsvard; three children, Claude Greengard, Leslie Greengard and Ursula Anne von Rydingsvard; a sister, Linda Greengard; and six grandchildren.Before Dr. Greengard went to Yale, he spent a several months at Vanderbilt University working with Dr. Earl Sutherland Jr., an eminent biochemist. Dr. Sutherland had made important discoveries about the chemical signaling that takes place in fat and muscle cells in response to messages from hormones; he went on to receive the 1971 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for this work.Dr. Sutherland’s research roused Dr. Greengard’s curiosity. Did the sort of chemical signaling observed in fat and muscle cells also take place in brain cells?AdvertisementSupported byBy Iliana MagraLONDON — Students in England already learn about mathematics, science and history, but hundreds of schools are preparing to expand the traditional curriculum with a new subject: mindfulness.In up to 370 English schools, students will start to practice mindfulness as part of a study to improve youth mental health, the British government said on Monday.They will work with mental health experts to learn relaxation techniques, breathing exercises and other methods to “help them regulate their emotions,” the government said in a news release announcing the program.The goal of the program is to study which approaches work best for young people in a world of rapid change. The government said the study, which will run until 2021, is one of the largest of its kind in the world.“As a society, we are much more open about our mental health than ever before, but the modern world has brought new pressures for children,” Damian Hinds, the British education secretary, said in a statement.“Children will start to be introduced gradually to issues around mental health, well-being and happiness right from the start of primary school,” he added.The initiative comes months after a survey commissioned by the National Health Service found that one in eight children in England between the ages of 5 and 19 suffered from at least one mental disorder at the time of their assessment in 2017.The survey, which was published in November, also indicated a slight increase in mental disorders in five to 15-year-olds, which rose to 11.2 percent in 2017 from 9.7 percent in 1999. Disorders like anxiety and depression were the most common, affecting one in 12 children and early adolescents in 2017, and appeared more often in girls.Imran Hussain, the director of policy and campaigns for Action for Children, a British charity, in the United Kingdom, called it a “children’s mental health crisis.”“Every day our front-line services see children and teenagers struggling to get to grips with how they fit into the increasingly complex modern world — contending with things like intense pressure at school, bullying or problems at home, all while being bombarded by social media,” he said in a statement on Monday.He added: “Services like these can lessen the anxiety, pain and anguish that some teens go through, but also reduce their need for intensive support further down the line.”But two Parliamentary committees have criticized the government reports on which the program is based, for focusing on handling emotional problems rather than preventing them. In a report released last May, the Education and Health and Social Care Committees wrote, “the Government’s strategy lacks ambition and will provide no help to the majority of those children who desperately need it,” while increasing the workload of teachers.“The role of prevention appears to be a missing link in building better support for children and young people, especially in the early years,” the committees wrote. They found that social media and the schools’ system of high-pressure exams can have particularly negative effects on the mental health of young people.But Dr. Jessica Deighton, an associate professor in child mental health and well-being at University College London who is leading the government trials, said that the new initiative was intended to offer more than quick fixes.“There is a tendency to think that the solution is mental health intervention,” she said on Monday. “We will try to reduce the stigma against mental health problems, by making the school environment literate in mental health.”She said the program included several tactics, including training teachers to hold role-playing exercises, teaching relaxation practices and inviting professionals for group discussions.“It’s not just to make them feel better in the short-term,” Dr. Deighton said, “but to better equip them for later in life.”AdvertisementSupported byTHE STONEBoth Cesar Chavez and Simone Weil starved their bodies for spiritual and political reasons. Why is only one of them remembered as anorexic?By Mariana AlessandriMs. Alessandri is an assistant professor of philosophy. Last summer I took part in a 24-hour fast, as part of a “Break Bread Not Families” prayer and fasting chain. I spent a day not eating, in spiritual solidarity with the 2,400 children who had been separated from a parent at the border. Many of these children were being detained a few miles from my house in McAllen, Tex., where their parents were signing deportation papers on the promise of reunification — and where President Trump visited last Thursday. The hosting organization was LUPE (La Unión del Pueblo Entero), a nonprofit organization that works on local issues in South Texas and was founded by the labor activists Dolores Huerta and Cesar Chavez in 1989. Chavez, — who died in 1993 and is considered a hero by many for founding, along with Huerta and other labor organizers, the United Farm Workers of America — was a deliberate undereater. He undertook three major fasts in his life — the first public fast lasted for 25 days in 1968, the second for 27 days in 1972 and the last for 36 days in 1988 — with frequent shorter ones in between. Chavez claimed that he didn’t fast primarily to nudge political action, much less to change his body shape. As a Roman Catholic, he described fasting as a means of purifying his body, mind and soul, and he saw it as an opportunity to do penance, join in solidarity with others, and draw attention to the maltreatment of farmworkers. Chavez called fasting “probably the most powerful communicative tool that we have,” emphasizing the spiritual nature of the medium. In fasting, he believed that one soul could speak directly to another one, bypassing political and religious differences. Chavez described fasting as a “sacrifice for justice” and a “reminder of suffering.” Each fast was deeply personal, but Chavez knew that he was tapping into the history of not eating as a way of speaking truth to political power.Chavez also knew that he was risking his life and worrying loved ones by under-eating, but he insisted that he didn’t fast “out of a desire to destroy myself.” Yet despite knowing that some fasters die around the 15-day mark, Chavez persisted 10 days longer than that in his first public fast. He died at 66, his body certainly weakened by his fasting.Most people would not be surprised to know that Chavez was not — either during his life or posthumously — generally considered to have an eating disorder. His fasting was believed to have served a higher purpose. That was not the case with another well-known Catholic, who, decades before Chavez, was drawn to the idea of refusing food for a social good and to connect with God.The French philosopher and mystic Simone Weil (1909-1943) — not a traditional Catholic but a Catholic nonetheless — was a faster, too. She systematically denied herself food three times in her life. At 5, Weil gave up sugar upon learning that French soldiers didn’t have access to it. The second time, she ate only what factory workers could afford to eat. The third time she died, at 34, after having for too long eaten only the quantity of food that her compatriots in occupied France would have access to.Weil stated that her fasts were motivated by a sense of solidarity with France’s emaciated outcasts, and her empathy found a home in her empty stomach. But she confessed that her fasting had as much to do with what she called the “void” where God lived as it did with solidarity. She wrote a considerable amount about the spiritual relationship between God and emptiness. “We have to fasten onto the hunger,” she wrote, since hunger reminds us that we are not self-sustaining, that God is spiritual bread. She believed that loving God was akin to renouncing food even when one is hungry. Food can’t fill the void inside of us, she thought, since that’s where God belongs. For Weil, hunger was a sign that there was room enough for God.Weil claimed that her fasting was spiritual and social, as Chavez did. Both systematically underfed themselves and claimed religious grounds for doing so. In both cases, loved ones worried about them, and in both cases, these periods of undernourishment hastened their deaths. They each provided religious reasons for not eating, but only one of them was believed. In many of the subsequent accounts of her life, Weil has been labeled an anorexic, like St. Catherine of Siena, the 14th-century nun who was also convinced that she could reach God through her empty stomach. This was not the fate of Chavez, who is today still admired for carrying out a centuries-old ascetic practice, nor of Mohandas Gandhi — nor for that matter, Jesus Christ, who in the Bible is said to have fasted for 40 days and nights in the desert.Today, even though one-third of diagnosed eating disorders are found in men, we overwhelmingly associate the medical diagnosis of anorexia nervosa with women (a more obscure term, anorexia mirabilis, denotes undereating as a form of religious asceticism, and is not listed as a medical condition in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders). All this suggests that in society when a woman intentionally fasts, we are more likely to see her as sick; and when a man does it, we consider him spiritual. It’s certainly possible that Weil hid a case of anorexia nervosa behind a mask of spirituality. By that logic, though, Chavez might have done the same thing.The same double standard applies outside of a religious context. Just like yoga, meditation, and other spiritual practices that get popular when they jettison their religious trappings, fasting has become a health practice in recent years, often in male circles. Some research now supports the idea that the body does well when it gets deprived of food for certain lengths of time, from 12 hours to three days, a concept known as Intermittent Fasting. Like the Paleo movement (a diet often marketed to men), I.F. remembers us as Paleolithic humans in the wild, with days of plenty sandwiched by days of nothing. Today, magazines and podcasts aimed at men promote the idea that I.F. is good for a man’s physique. Notably absent is public worry that these men will develop eating disorders. In contrast, when a female student in my class announced that she was going to start practicing I.F., other students quickly warned her to “be careful.”To point out this gender disparity around fasting is not to ignore the very real problem of eating disorders. In an age where anorexia nervosa and bulimia are prevalent among both men and women, there is sufficient reason to be cautious in branding any fast as “spiritual” — doing so might give cover by offering a religious justification in cases that may very well be psychological and physical in nature. The American cultural obsession with thinness and the demonization of body fat that magnify critical self-image and the psychological aspects of eating disorders should not be taken lightly. But that does not negate the misunderstanding and gender stereotyping that often surrounds intentional fasting for spiritual or political purposes.My own one-day fast confirmed that I love food, but also that I am capable of systematically denying it to myself for a higher cause. Like Weil, I had hoped the pain in my stomach would serve as a reminder of the emotional pain of the children who lacked not food but mothers. It did: Every time my stomach groaned I imagined temporarily orphaned children. Privation joined me to them, even if mine was self-imposed and temporary. Like Chavez I felt repentant, as in, turned back toward the good, toward justice, toward God. Fasting made me feel utterly connected to these children, and thoroughly Catholic. By fasting I was tapping into my own religious, ascetic history, and I had triumphantly joined Weil and Chavez in their quest to share in the suffering of others.Something telling also happened that day. I kept wondering if my desire to not eat was indicative of a latent eating disorder. In eating (and other areas), women are taught to doubt themselves. Perhaps the power radiating from the sickly bodies of Gandhi and Chavez contrasts too sharply with the medical diagnoses of bodies like Weil’s, leading women to believe that deep inside, our souls are sick. I doubt that the men I fasted with that day in Texas heard a critical voice in their head, incessantly pressing them to examine their motives.As a philosopher, I am in no position to make diagnoses for either of these historical figures, but I can insist that their actions — and ours — be viewed in the same light, with the same kind of scrutiny.Mariana Alessandri is an assistant professor of philosophy at the University of Texas, Rio Grande Valley.AdvertisementSupported byAbout to enter a federal prison, a Massachusetts woman is not permitted to continue taking the opioid as a treatment to block cravings and withdrawal from heroin addiction. By Abby GoodnoughA Massachusetts woman recovering from heroin addiction sued the Federal Bureau of Prisons on Friday over its policy prohibiting methadone treatment, which she wants to continue when she starts a yearlong sentence next month.Her suit comes four months after a federal judge ordered a county jail outside Boston to let an incoming inmate stay on methadone instead of requiring him to go through forced withdrawal, as was its policy. It adds to growing pressure on the criminal justice system to provide methadone or other evidence-based treatments to the staggering number of inmates with opioid addiction.The plaintiff, Stephanie DiPierro of Everett, Mass., was sentenced to a year and a day in federal prison after pleading guilty last fall to theft of public funds; she had collected disability benefits and food stamps without reporting income from a job. Ms. DiPierro, now 38, became addicted to opioids as a teenager after her mother died of cancer. Since 2005, she has gone to a clinic for daily doses of methadone, a kind of opioid that was approved decades ago to control cravings and withdrawal symptoms in people addicted to narcotic painkillers and heroin. “Methadone gave me my life back,” Ms. DiPierro, who declined to be interviewed, wrote in a sworn statement attached to the lawsuit. Without the treatment in prison, she added, she fears that upon her release, “I will lose control of my addiction and I will relapse, overdose and die.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The federal prison system has estimated that about 40 percent of its roughly 180,000 inmates have a substance use disorder. But while it uses methadone to detox new inmates who are dependent on opioids, it does not allow anti-craving medications as ongoing treatment except for pregnant women, who can take methadone, according to a spokesperson.With overdose deaths from synthetic fentanyl continuing to rise, and newly released inmates at much higher risk because they lose their opioid tolerance while incarcerated, prisons and jails around the country face increasing pressure to offer anti-craving medications. But only Rhode Island and Vermont are offering state prisoners all three medications approved by the F.D.A. to treat opioid addiction: methadone, buprenorphine and naltrexone.At the urging of the Trump administration, the prisons bureau recently started offering naltrexone to inmates who are about to be released to halfway houses. The spokesperson said naltrexone is being offered in 23 prisons in the Northeast and will eventually be expanded, but would not say how many inmates had received naltrexone injections so far. Many in law enforcement favor naltrexone, marketed as Vivitrol, because unlike methadone and buprenorphine, it is not an opioid itself and is taken once a month instead of daily. But there is less evidence backing its effectiveness, and some studies have found people don’t stay on it as long.More than 250 jails in 33 states now offer Vivitrol to at least some addicted inmates, typically just before their release, according to Andy Klein, a senior scientist for Advocates for Human Potential, a company that provides training to prisons and jails with addiction treatment programs.“It’s been practically doubling every year,” Mr. Klein said, though he added that only a few dozen jails offer buprenorphine (also known as Suboxone) or methadone.Ms. DiPierro’s lawsuit alleges that in prohibiting medication for a diagnosed condition, the Bureau of Prisons is violating the Eighth Amendment’s ban on cruel and unusual punishment. It also accuses the prisons bureau of violating the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, which protects people with disabilities from discrimination by federal agencies.“The Bureau of Prisons is denying her a reasonable accommodation for her disability, and also discriminating between different disabilities,” said Jessie Rossman, a staff lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts, which is representing Ms. DiPierro and also represented the plaintiff in last year’s county-level case. “Inmates with chronic conditions like diabetes are allowed to continue to take their medically necessary treatment.”Ms. Rossman said the case appeared to be the first challenge to the Bureau of Prisons policy on medication-assisted treatment, adding, “What’s now coming across loud and clear is that the standard of care to treat opioid use disorder is medication-assisted treatment, and it’s ineffective and unlawful to prevent individuals from accessing their treatment and medication for that disease.”The prisons bureau declined to comment on the lawsuit. Giving Ms. DiPierro naltrexone before her release would do nothing to help her withdrawal symptoms and cravings while in custody, Ms. Rossman said, and staying on methadone was safer for Ms. DiPierro regardless, because it had worked for her.Other state chapters of the A.C.L.U. — in Maine and Washington State — have filed cases seeking methadone or buprenorphine treatment in jails.In Rhode Island, an early evaluation of the system found that nine people recently released from prison there died of an overdose in the first six months of 2017, compared with 26 people over the same period in 2016.AdvertisementSupported byEncouraging and exploiting division has worked for Trump, as far as his own electoral prospects are concerned. Can he keep it up?By Thomas B. EdsallMr. Edsall contributes a weekly column from Washington, D.C. on politics, demographics and inequality.However often President Trump strays from his favored political strategy, he faithfully returns to it like a dog to a bone: first, polarize the American electorate along racial, cultural and economic lines, then exploit the schisms that have supplanted the class divisions that were once central to both American and European partisan politics.On one side of the divide are those whom the political scientists Pippa Norris and Ronald Inglehart describe in a 2016 paper as comfortable with “an inexorable cultural escalator moving postindustrial societies steadily in a more progressive direction.” This new direction amounts to what the authors callan intergenerational shift toward post-materialist values, such as cosmopolitanism and multiculturalism, generating rising support for left-libertarian parties such as the Greens and other progressive movements advocating environmental protection, human rights, and gender equality.On the other side, Norris and Inglehart write, is a counterrevolution, aretro backlash, especially among the older generation, white men, and less educated sectors, who sense decline and actively reject the rising tide of progressive values, resent the displacement of familiar traditional norms, and provide a pool of supporters potentially vulnerable to populist appeals.Economic distress, they argue, reinforces cultural alienation to produce fertile terrain for Trump. “Fears of economic insecurity, including the individual experience of the loss of secure, well-paid blue-collar jobs, and the collective experience of living in declining communities of the left-behinds” combine to make votersmore susceptible to the anti-establishment appeals of authoritarian-populist actors, offering simple slogans blaming “Them” for stripping prosperity, job opportunities, and public services from “Us.” The collision of these forces has produced the emergence of an American authoritarianism. In their book, “Cultural Backlash: Trump, Brexit and Authoritarian Populism,” which comes out later this week, Norris and Inglehart write that Trump has assumed leadership of this authoritarian movement,defined as a cluster of values prioritizing collective security for the group at the expense of liberal autonomy for the individual. Authoritarian values prioritize three core components: 1) the importance of security against risks of instability and disorder (foreigners stealing our jobs, immigrants attacking our women, terrorists threatening our safety); 2) the value of group conformity to preserve conventional traditions and to guard our way of life (defending “Us” against threats to “European values”); and 3) the need for loyal obedience toward strong leaders who protect the group and its customs (“I alone can fix it," “Believe me,” “Are you on my team?").The United States and many European countries, at various points in the last decade, have reached a critical juncture, Norris and Inglehart write: “The interwar generation, non-college graduates, the working class, white Europeans, the more religious, men and residents of rural communities” have come to feel “estranged from the silent revolution in social and moral values, left behind by cultural tides that they deeply reject.” These men and women, “until recently the politically and socially dominant group in Western cultures,” reacheda tipping point at which their hegemonic status, power and privilege is fading. Their values make them potential supporters for parties and leaders promising to restore national sovereignty (Make America Great Again), restrict immigration and multicultural diversity (Build a Wall) and defend traditional religious and conventional moral values.The debate over whether the rise of right-wing populism is driven by cultural anxiety, racism, ethnocentricity or economic deprivation may “be somewhat artificial,” Norris and Inglehart contend becauseinteractive processes may possibly link these factors, if structural changes in the work force and social trends in globalized markets heighten economic insecurity, and if this, in turn, stimulates a negative backlash among traditionalists toward cultural shifts. It may not be an either/or question, but one of relative emphasis with interactive effects.In this country, the nominally class-based politics of the New Deal fractured when working class non-college whites felt abandoned by a Democratic Party that shed its pre-civil rights, segregationist southern wing and that by the 1970s had adopted a culturally and racially liberal agenda. Over the past five decades, these white voters have formed the core of the populist right. Conversely, minorities, many of whom face the same economic hardships as working class whites, if not worse, are firmly aligned with the party of social and cultural liberalism and racial equality, the Democratic Party.“The new cultural cleavage dividing Populists and Cosmopolitan Liberals,” Norris and Inglehart write, is “orthogonal to the classic economic class cleavage” — in other words, the new division cuts across and splits the old economic class solidarity.Data from a preliminary American National Election Studies survey — provided to me by Matthew DeBell, a scholar at Stanford’s Institute for Research in the Social Sciences — revealed the strength of this new cleavage. The survey asked 2,500 men and women to rank their feelings toward Trump on a “feeling thermometer” scale of zero, “very cold or unfavorable,” to 100, “very warm or favorable.”The results illustrate that the population is even more divided between those who love and those who hate Trump than we might think. Sixty-one percent had either extremely hostile or very positive feelings toward the president.Alan Abramowitz, a political scientist at Emory University, analyzed the responses to the survey. He wrote me that nearly two out of five of those surveyed, 38 percent, put Trump in the coldest range, 5 degrees or lower. 23 percent, put him in the warmest range, 95 degrees or higher. If the definition of extreme is expanded to encompass those who rank Trump from 0 to 10 and from 90 to 100, the total grows to 72 percent — 44 percent at 10 degrees or lower, 28 percent 90 degrees or higher.Abramowitz noted that “Trump is the most polarizing president in the history of ANES polling and Gallup polling.”Not only is Trump the most polarizing president, he has monopolized public attention and managed to make himself the object of both loathing and adoration.“The 2020 elections will certainly be all about Trump, assuming he is on the ballot and to a considerable extent even if he is not,” Gary Jacobson, a political scientist at the University of California-San Diego, wrote me in an email. “The 2018 election was all about Trump even though he was not on the ballot.”Stanley Feldman, a political scientist at Stony Brook University, elaborated on Trump’s self-generated centrality in an email:While Democrats and Republicans were already quite polarized before Trump ran for the presidency, I don’t think there is any question that he has contributed to further polarization. It is increasingly difficult to find people who don’t feel strongly about him.Trump, Feldman noted,taps into some fundamental issues in contemporary American politics — race/ethnicity, social issues, nationalism — and his rhetoric — clearly designed to appeal to his base — turns off many of those who are not with him on those issues. When you do little or nothing to broaden your support beyond your core voters you will generate extreme affective reactions.Feldman posed the question:Will this make the 2020 election largely about Trump? To a great extent yes, though the answer to that will depend in part on who the Democratic candidate is. As we saw in 2016, negative reactions to Hillary Clinton contributed to the outcome of that election.Feldman’s point about Clinton leads to the next question. As the Democratic selection of a nominee begins in earnest, one issue threatens the cohesion of the center-left coalition: whether the party should support expansive liberal initiatives like Medicare for All, a sharp hike in tax rates on the rich and a Green New Deal or whether it should stake out the center.Columnists who lean toward the center themselves have been particularly sharp in their criticism of the leftward movement of the party.“Democrats Are Boosting Trump’s Re-election Prospects,” read the headline of a National Journal article last week by Josh Kraushaar: Their top 2020 presidential hopefuls are embracing socialist-minded economic policy, from a Green New Deal to single-payer health insurance. It’s playing right into the president’s hands.Gerald Seib, a columnist at The Wall Street Journal, wrote earlier this week that “Democrats have arrived at a moment of great opportunity, but also of great peril.”Increasingly, he argued, the party has becomeidentified with policy proposals that are easy for Republicans to caricature as left-wing extremism. It is a fair bet that a majority of congressional Democrats don’t support either a 70 percent top tax rate or an across-the-board wealth tax on the richest Americans.In addition, Seib noted, “the party is beginning to experience the consequences of a zero-tolerance attitude on perceived misbehavior.”According to Seib, “Democrats face this question: Could they manage to scare off that center just as it has become so available?” The risk, Seib wrote,is that centrist voters will think they see that an angry left wing taking charge. Democrats could appear to be succumbing to the national mood of anger, when the better image might be of hope.In his State of the Union address on Feb. 5, Trump laid the groundwork for an assault on Democrats, declaring:Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country. America was founded on liberty and independence — not government coercion, domination, and control. We are born free, and we will stay free. Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.I asked Brian Schaffner, a political scientist at Tufts who is one of the directors of the Cooperative Congressional Election Study, whether Democratic primary voters are pushing presidential candidates to take stands on issues further to the left than the general electorate would accept.Contrary to the view of many political analysts, Schaffner countered with data suggesting that this is not the case.“I actually don’t think Democratic primary voters are substantially more liberal than Democrats more broadly,” he wrote, adding that many of the party’s new policy initiatives are, in fact, “favored by a majority of those who voted in 2016.”He cited the following results from the 2016 Cooperative Congressional Election Study survey.Who favored granting legal status to immigrants? Democratic primary voters: 79 percent support; Democrats in general: 77 percent support; all voters: 55 percent support.Who would require minimum amounts of renewable energy? Democratic primary voters: 85 percent support; Democrats in general: 80 percent support; all voters: 61 percent support.Ban assault rifles? Democratic primary voters: 91 percent support; Democrats in general: 84 percent support; all voters: 64 percent.Eliminate mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent offenders? Democratic primary voters: 84 percent support; Democrats in general: 78 percent support; all voters: 67 percent.How about raising the minimum wage to $12 per hour? Democratic primary voters: 92 percent support; Democrats in general: 90 percent support; all voters: 65 percent.Along similar lines, four political scientists, John Sides and Christopher Warshaw of George Washington University, and Lynn Vavreck and Chris Tausanovitch of UCLA, write in a March 2018 paper, “On the Representativeness of Primary Electorates” that “primary voters are frequently characterized as an ideologically extreme subset of their party, and thus partially responsible for increasing party polarization in government.” On the contrary, they find “that primary voters are similar to rank and file voters in their party” and thus “the composition of primary electorates does not exert a polarizing effect above what might arise from voters in the party as a whole.”Jacobson of UCSD strongly agreed, arguing that Democrats’ intense dislike of Trump will make them willing to forgive a candidate who fails to adopt all their favored policies if the candidate looks like a winner:Most Democrats will have as their prime goal — far more important than positions taken by the candidates — making sure Trump does not have a second term.The national election survey cited above reveals the depth of the electorate’s divisions on a range of issues in the Trump era.On what may prove to the crucial subject of debate over the next two — impeachment — the public is split.The survey found that a 42.1 plurality favors impeachment, including 24.9 percent who favor it strongly. A slightly smaller 38 percent oppose impeachment, including 30 percent who oppose it strongly. 19.9 percent did not take a stand.Americans are evenly divided in their assessment of Trump’s repeated denials that neither he nor his campaign ever coordinated with Russia to defeat Hillary Clinton. According to the survey, 49.9 percent agreed with the statement “Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign probably coordinated with the Russians,” while 50.1 percent said the campaign “probably did not coordinate.”One of Trump’s signature claims during the 2016 campaign was the promise that he would “drain the swamp” of corruption in the nation’s capital. That promise, according the public, is not holding up well.The survey asked “Has corruption in government increased, decreased, or stayed the same since Donald Trump became president?” The result? More than half, 54 percent, said corruption has increased under Trump, including 26.6 percent who said it has increased “a great deal.” 28 percent said the level of corruption remains unchanged, and 18.4 percent said corruption had decreased. 3.1 percent said corruption had decreased “a great deal.”Trump has railed against the Mueller investigation since it began, calling it an “illegal Joseph McCarthy style Witch Hunt.” Asked about the Mueller investigation, 45.1 of those surveyed said they approved, 16.6 points more than the 28.5 percent who said they disapproved, 19.7 percent “extremely strongly.” 28.4 percent had no opinion.Trump has pushed the authoritarian envelope further than any president (or major party presidential candidate) in recent memory.Let’s turn back to Gary Jacobson. “As long as Trump is on the scene, the nation is bound to remain deeply divided,” Jacobson writes in “Extreme Referendum: Donald Trump and the 2018 Midterm Elections,” which will appear in a forthcoming issue of Political Science Quarterly:To the extent that he reshapes the Republican Party in his white nationalist image, these divisions will deepen further and every election, like the 2018 midterms, will be fought with both sides convinced that nothing less than the future of American democracy is at stake.Norris and Inglehart suggest that the dependence of the populist right on older voters may lead to its steady decline as those voters die off, but they are not confident that this will happen. “It remains to be seen how resilient liberal democracy will be in Western societies, or whether it will be damaged irreparably by authoritarian populist forces” they write at the conclusion of their book. “The problem is not just Trump, nor is it just America. It reflects pervasive economic and cultural changes, for which there are no easy answers.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

MARCH 29, 2019

Nutritional psychiatrists are interested in the interactions between what we eat and how we feel. For someone with mild depression, they might "prescribe" this food, rich in long-chain omega-3 fatty acids:French friesOystersChocolateBeetsTrue or false? Even if you haven't worked out in years, you can gain much of the longevity benefits of exercise if you start to exercise regularly in midlife:TrueFalseOlder fathers are at increased risk of having children with:AutismSchizophreniaProblems related to premature birthAll of the aboveA federal jury ordered the chemical company Monsanto to pay a California man more than $80 million because it failed to warn that the popoular weedkiller Roundup may cause this form of cancer: LymphomaLeukemiaLung cancerBrain tumorTeenagers who lived in urban areas with polluted air were more likely to suffer from these mental health issues, a British study found:DepressionAnxietyPsychotic experiencesEating disordersRockland County, outside New York City, barred unvaccinated children from public places because of an outbreak of:MeaslesMumpsRubellaTyphoidTrue or false? Americans are having fewer heart attacks than they did 20 years ago.AdvertisementSupported byThe CheckupSome aggression is normal, experts say; parents can respond with redirection or distraction rather than by punishing the child with anger, yelling or spanking.By Perri Klass, M.D.Behavior problems in children, especially aggression and defiance, don’t get a great deal of sympathy, said Dave Anderson, a psychologist who is senior director of national programs at the Child Mind Institute in New York City. “For a child to get better requires just as much empathy and scaffolding as for a child who might be depressed, but behavioral issues inspire nowhere near as much empathy.”There is a persistent belief that these behaviors reflect poor parenting, he said, but in fact, there is often a strong biological component to behavioral issues, and the responses which come naturally to most parents faced with these behaviors may not have the desired results.“If you’re going to have persistent behavior problems involving aggression and defiance, it’s already elevated at 2,” said Michael F. Lorber, a senior research scientist with the Family Translational Research Group at New York University. In a study published last year in the Journal of Pediatrics, Dr. Lorber and his colleagues looked at 477 children from 6 to 24 months of age, asking their mothers to report on how often in the past month the children had shown specific behaviors ranging from kicking and hitting to pulling hair, biting and even hurting animals.These behaviors were very common, with some actions (hitting or smacking someone) much more common than others (hurting animals). The prevalence of the behaviors tended to increase over time, with hitting peaking at 18 months, and kicking and pushing, as well as throwing objects at people, peaking at 20 months. “Eight of 10 kids were hitting and smacking at 18 months,” Dr. Lorber said. “The terrible twos started before 2.”Not only were more toddlers hitting as they got older, but they were hitting more frequently, so that the 24-month-olds were reported to be hitting nearly four to six days a week.On the other hand, hair-pulling decreased with age, as did scratching, and the researchers speculated that the increased incidence of those behaviors among the younger children may reflect the close contact they have, since they are usually being held.The researchers suggested that pediatricians can reassure parents that these behaviors are normal in small children, but also guide parents, right from the beginning, in setting limits and responding in ways that may help — redirecting or distracting a child — rather than by punishing the child with anger, yelling or spanking.Though these behaviors are seen in almost all children, those toddlers who act aggressively more frequently and consistently may need more help — and so may their parents. “These behaviors are not inconsequential,” Dr. Lorber said. “Kids who are more aggressive also tend to be more tantrummy, more irritable.”And those problems persist as the children grow, he said. “Although aggression is normative, some kids do it a lot more than others,” Dr. Lorber said. “The kids who are really high frequency — it’s happening every day, multiple behaviors are happening every day — those are probably the kids who have passed some threshold where that would warrant special additional attention like referrals to parenting intervention services.” They should also be evaluated to make sure that nothing else is going on, from a physical problem causing pain and irritability to an impairment in hearing or speech causing frustration.Dr. Anderson said that aggressive behavior in children at the extreme can be one symptom of a behavior disorder. The important questions in separating out normal (if unpleasant) behavior from a disorder include the frequency, intensity and duration of the behavior, and whether it is making trouble for the child, getting him kicked out of preschool, or leaving her friendless on the playground.But while parents may think about this as a dichotomy, he said — does the child have a disorder or not — in fact, clinicians who work with behavior problems believe that there are strategies that every parent could use.“Our instincts as human beings are often wrong,” Dr. Anderson said.“We tend to be negative behavior detectors.” When two siblings are playing quietly together, he said, “most parents are thinking, don’t jinx it, or let me go do something on my to-do list.” But when there is conflict, parents respond with anger and threats and punishment.Those ways of responding to the negative behaviors, he said, are unlikely to work — with small children, with adolescents or with adults. “We don’t tell partners to yell at partners as part of couples therapy; we don’t tell bosses to yell at employees for better productivity.”Parents should set up clear expectations before a problem develops, he said, thinking about how to manage getting ready for school the next morning, for example, if today did not go well. And they should offer specific positive feedback for positive behaviors, rather than worrying that they will “jinx” those good behaviors.If a child is having significant behavior problems, parents should be ready to ignore minor misbehavior, he said, such as verbal disrespect or whining. So pick your battles, and don’t give in to the idea that a big punishment is the way to go. “With aggression, lots of parents have a ‘go big or go home’ approach: My child picked a fight, so no play dates, no TV,” privileges rescinded indefinitely, Dr. Anderson said. “The reality is that big punishments do not translate to better behavior.”Instead, punishments should be immediate, consistent and used in small doses; parents should look for ways to remove a privilege for a short time, and establish clear expectations for better behavior. Thus, if a child picks a fight with another child at school, a parent might impose a specific consequence (such as no screens for two days), offer a clear discussion of keeping your hands to yourself, and go over some alternative strategies for moments of frustration: take a break, tell a teacher, interact with another peer. And then, having defined the good behaviors, the parents — and perhaps the teacher as well — need to look for occasions to draw attention to those behaviors.“The moment we see him be mildly frustrated but take a break, whether consciously or unconsciously, we need to catch him,” Dr. Anderson said, and tell him he did the right thing. Some children who act aggressively may actually be anxious, Dr. Anderson said, or may be showing the irritability that can go with depression. Children who have experienced trauma may also have behavioral symptoms.Advertisement

      By TOBY BILANOW

FEB. 8, 2019

Men who lived alone tended to die earlier than those who didn't, particularly from this cause: CancerCardiovascular diseaseDiabetesAlzheimer's diseaseVeterinarians say that nearly half the dogs they see are overweight or obese. What percent of owners acknowledge their pets are fat?8 percent17 percent26 percent44 percentA shortage of the drug buspirone has left patients distressed because there are no good substitutes. Buspirone is used to treat:DiabetesHigh blood pressureAnxietyMigrainesMen who exercised a lot — the equivalent of running about six miles a day — showed these heart changes:High levels of calcium in the arteriesBuildup of arterial plaquesA decreased risk of heart attackAll of the aboveCompared to poorer Americans, wealthy Americans were more likely to buy all of the following medications except:AntibioticsBotox injectionsDrugs for mental health disordersBirth control pillsA large review of studies found that this vitamin may help ward off dementia:B vitaminsVitamin CVitamin DThe review found that no vitamin or mineral supplements were proven effective to boost brain healthScreen use at bedtime may impair children's quality of life, a new study found. Screen use was particularly disruptive:When the lights were onIn a dark roomChina DailyAdvertisementShareThe incidence of sleep disorder in the country is 38.2 percent, above the international level.“I kept telling myself to sleep, but it didn’t work, my eyes stayed open until 5 a.m.,” said Perinur Ewel, a second-year postgraduate student at China Agricultural University in Beijing. Perinur, who has had problems sleeping for over six years, often finally falls asleep at 4 a.m. or 5 a.m. Before that she’s wide-awake, even though she can feel her physical tiredness－the result of getting by on five or six hours of sleep a day.Han Fang, president of the Chinese Sleep Research Society, said: “Our studies have found that more and more youths have sleep problems; many used to have small problems, and these became severe sleep diseases. We need to give the problem closer attention.”The number of patients with sleep problems has grown considerably in the past decade, according to Guo Xiheng, director of the sleep and respiratory center at Beijing Chaoyang Hospital of Capital Medical University.Guo, who has studied sleep problems for 36 years, said nearly a third of his patients are younger than 30.“The ratio was about 10 percent 10 years ago,” he said.A study by the sleep research society found that the incidence of sleep disorder in China is 38.2 percent, well above the international level, which the World Health Organization puts at 27 percent.The World Association of Sleep Medicine launched an annual campaign in 2008 to lessen the burden of sleep problems on society and to raise awareness of the issue, with the Friday before the Vernal Equinox designated as World Sleep Day. This year it was held on March 15, but China organizes its own Sleep Day every March 21.Intense pressureMany young people are under intense pressure from work and study, and sleep less in order to compete with their peers, but this results in poor mental health and contributes to many of their sleep problems. Overuse of electronic devices, such as smartphones, is another factor significantly affecting sleep.Perinur, who is in her mid-20s, started to have sleep disorders in 2013, her first year at university. There was one week when she never got to sleep before 5 a.m.She has been intermittently plagued by sleep problems ever since. In September 2017, her disorder worsened and she could not sleep before 4 a.m. for a month.More recently, she has been unable to get good sleep three days a week. Nevertheless, Perinur tries to force herself to sleep at normal times.“Every sleepless night, I think about so much stuff; stuff that may have happened a long time ago or stuff that is not even real,” she said. “I can’t help it.”Perinur takes pills to help her sleep if she struggles to do so for three consecutive days. She once tried herbal medication, said to be good for calming the nerves, but it was ineffective.Xu Yueping, a third-year postgraduate student at Anqing Normal University in Anhui province, who wants to be an English teacher, is writing her thesis. Progress has been very slow, putting her under great mental pressure.She goes to bed about 1 a.m. and wakes up before 7 a.m., or sometimes even before 6 a.m., suffering from insomnia about three days a week.Things are worse when she is preoccupied by her daily activities and obligations.“I just can’t sleep. My mind’s more active at night. That’s when I can think about things deeply, uninterrupted.”Xu, 24, said she feels she is in a vicious circle. She is used to writing her thesis at night when she should be sleeping. In turn, work on the thesis has progressed at snail’s pace because of her lack of rest, and increasing anxiety.“I know insomnia and sleep disorders are quite harmful, but it is difficult for me to adjust my sleep habit immediately,” she said.Xu began to have sleep problems three years ago. She used to chat or browse on her smartphone for an hour a night before sleeping, and recently realized this could be a factor in her insomnia.She now puts her phone out of reach before going to bed. Exercising and drinking milk to induce sleep has been of little help, she said. Fierce competitionTang Muming, a data analyst from Suzhou, Jiangsu province, began having sleep problems when she was studying for her master’s in the United States a year and a half ago.She often falls asleep at 2 a.m., and one or two days a week about 4 a.m.“I’ve even tried counting sheep, but it hasn’t worked.”Tang, 25, used to study overnight with her classmates in the library. “There was a week when I was only sleeping three hours a day. I was totally exhausted.”Before she started her present job, she suffered a long bout of anxiety about her work prospects. The fierce competition in the data analysis field has added to her anxieties.“Data analysts are easily replaceable. And we need to keep up-to-date with what’s happening with big data, business analysis and artificial intelligence, since everything changes so fast.”Han of the Chinese Sleep Research Society said sleep problems are not confined to college students and those in the work force. Primary and secondary school students also suffer from insomnia because of heavy workloads and fierce competition.With irregular lifestyles and myriad social activities to attend to, many young adults simply disregard any problems they are having with sleep.“They think it is fine to overdraw (their energy balance) a bit when they are young, but in the long run, it will have a big impact on their health,” Han said.People under 25 shouldn’t be having sleep problems, said Guo of Beijing Chaoyang Hospital, but the number of patients of that age has increased considerably during the past five years. “Some are teenagers,” he said.Most people aged 20 to 40 do not sleep until after midnight, which disturbs their biological clock and results in sleep quality degradation, shortened sleep duration and even loss of sleep, Guo said.Ideally, an adult should get to sleep about 10 p.m. and sleep for seven to eight hours, he said.Almost all his elderly patients developed bad sleeping habits and problems when they were young, Guo said.Negative effectsWhen Perinur, the student at China Agricultural University, has insomnia, it is very tough for her because her roommates will have fallen asleep after midnight, leaving her feeling lonely.“The more I want to sleep, the more I can’t,” she said.Perinur said she is irritable and has mood swings.Insomnia also makes her very sensitive to whatever is going on around her. Once when she overheard people talking about her dislikes, she burst into tears.“I don’t want to spread my negative feelings to my friends, and I want to deal with insomnia in a rational way,” she said.Before going to bed, she is now trying to read poetry such as Sand and Foam by Kahlil Gibran, to help her calm down.With her sleep problems, Xu, the student at Anqing Normal University, said she is sometimes emotional and irritable. She sometimes avoids spending with her friends because she lacks energy and is in a bad mood.Her daily routine was also affected when her sleep problems worsened in October. In December she felt sleepy as she spent time in class with primary school students. “One day I even dismissed the class early, because I was so sleepy. I couldn’t stand.”Yang ZekunAdvertisementSupported byOn March 25-26, the Food and Drug Administration is holding a two-day conference as it takes another look at breast implants because of renewed safety concerns. By Denise Grady and Roni Caryn RabinReports from thousands of women that breast implants are causing problems like debilitating joint pain and fatigue, claims long dismissed by the medical profession, are receiving new attention from the Food and Drug Administration and researchers.This may be a long-awaited moment of validation for tens of thousands of women who have been brushed off as neurotic, looking to cash in on lawsuits or just victims of chance who coincidentally became ill while having implants. The F.D.A. has begun to re-examine questions about implant safety that have long been disputed by doctors and implant manufacturers, and that most consumers thought had been resolved a decade or so ago. Millions of women have implants, which are silicone sacs filled with either salt water or silicone gel, used to enlarge the breasts cosmetically or to rebuild them after a mastectomy for breast cancer.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]On Tuesday, the agency warned two makers of breast implants that they had failed to conduct adequate long-term studies of the devices’ effects on women’s health. Those studies were mandated as a condition of approving the implants, and the agency cautioned that the devices could be taken off the market if the research wasn’t properly carried out. The agency also issued a statement on Friday that applied to a broad array of medical devices, acknowledging that implanted devices may make some people sick. “A growing body of evidence suggests that a small number of patients may have biological responses to certain types of materials in implantable or insertable devices,” the agency said. Those effects can include “inflammatory reactions and tissue changes causing pain and other symptoms that may interfere with their quality of life.”The F.D.A. said it was gathering information to fill information gaps in the science “to further our understanding of medical device materials and improve the safety of devices for patients.” Silicone, used in implants, is one of the materials under scrutiny.And next week, the agency will hold a two-day meeting about breast implants, hearing from researchers, patient advocacy groups and manufacturers. One problem to be discussed is an uncommon cancer of the immune system called anaplastic large cell lymphoma, which has been detected so far in 457 women with breast implants, according to the F.D.A. Removing the implants usually eliminates the disease, but some women have also needed chemotherapy, and 17 deaths from the cancer have been reported worldwide.Nearly all the lymphoma cases have occurred in women who had implants with a textured surface, rather than a smooth one. Textured implants made by Allergan, a major manufacturer, were taken off the market in Europe in December. Smooth implants are used more often than textured ones in the United States.Another focus of the conference will be “breast implant illness,” which encompasses disorders that may involve the immune system and can cause muscle pain, fatigue, weakness, cognitive difficulties and other debilitating symptoms. Some ailments fall into a category called connective tissue disease, which includes lupus, rheumatoid arthritis and other serious autoimmune diseases.The F.D.A. website says the agency “has not detected any association between silicone gel-filled breast implants and connective tissue disease.” But it adds, “In order to rule out these and other complications, studies would need to be larger and longer than these conducted so far.”The new warnings are of potential concern to millions of women with implants. About 400,000 women in the United States get breast implants every year, including 300,000 for cosmetic reasons and 100,000 for reconstruction after mastectomies performed to treat or prevent breast cancer. Worldwide, about 10 million women have breast implants.The F.D.A.’s new focus on implants is a testament to the power of patient activism in the age of social media, as sick women frustrated by their doctors’ lack of answers sought information online, found other patients with similar complaints and banded together to demand regulatory action. One Facebook group has nearly 70,000 members, according to its founder, Nicole Daruda, a Vancouver Island woman who felt well when she got implants in 2005 for reconstruction after cancer surgery, but soon became so ill she had to stop working.Ms. Daruda had them removed in 2013, and said most, but not all, of her symptoms have lessened.Another patient activist, Jamee Cook, now 41, had implant surgery for cosmetic reasons when she was 21. Over the next few years she developed so many health problems, including fatigue, memory lapses, migraines and numbness in her hands, that she had to quit her job as a paramedic.After having the implants removed in 2015, she said, her health has improved. Though she still has some bad days, Ms. Cook said, “It’s been like a 180.”Silicone-filled breast implants were first marketed in the United States in the 1960s. Over the next few decades, reports of illness emerged. In 1992, silicone implants were banned, except for reconstruction after mastectomy or to replace a previous implant, and then only in clinical trials.A flood of lawsuits followed.Studies conducted afterward generally found no link to connective tissue disease, but a few did suggest a connection. In 1999, the Institute of Medicine, then part of the National Academy of Sciences, concluded that overall, there was no evidence that breast implants caused connective tissue disease, cancer, immune disorders or other ailments.In 2006, silicone implants came back on the market. But manufacturers were required to follow large numbers of women for seven to 10 years, as a condition for F.D.A. approval. Deficiencies in the studies have now prompted the agency to send warning letters to two of the four companies approved to market breast implants in the United States.One warning letter, sent to the manufacturer Sientra, of Santa Barbara, Calif. on Tuesday, said the company had not kept enough patients in its study of an implant approved in 2012, and warned that if the follow-up monitoring did not improve, the agency could withdraw approval of the implant, effectively taking it off the market. Rosalyn d’Incelli, vice president of clinical and medical affairs for Sientra, said the company tries to retain patients in follow-up studies by compensating them, contacting them several times a year through email, phone calls, letters and postcards, and transferring them to doctors in more convenient locations. But she said that patients’ work obligations, child care, lack of transportation and other issues often present obstacles.“We are aware of and take this matter seriously,” Ms. D’Incelli said, adding that the company will respond to the F.D.A. about corrective measures it plans to take. “Patient safety, ensuring long-term safety and effectiveness of our devices and complying with F.D.A.’s requirements are our highest priority.” Its stock price dropped a little more than four percent on the F.D.A. news. Last September, the Securities and Exchange Commission accused its former chief executive, Hani Zeini, of concealing damaging information about the manufacturer of its implants before closing a $60 million stock offering in 2015. The Brazilian manufacturer had had a certificate of compliance required for selling in the European Union suspended. Sientra said its issue with the S.E.C. had been resolved.The other letter went to Mentor Worldwide, owned by Johnson & Johnson and based in Irvine, Calif. The F.D.A. said the company had not enrolled enough patients in a study of its MemoryShape implant, approved in 2013, and also threatened to rescind approval for the product. Withdrawing approval for a medical device is time-consuming and rarely occurs. Mindy Tinsley, a spokeswoman for Mentor, said the company was disappointed by the F.D.A.'s decision to issue a warning letter "despite our good faith efforts to address post-approval study requirements." She said Mentor notified the FDA last year that it would fall short of study enrollment targets because of changes in consumer preferences, but did not hear back. J&J’s stock remained unaffected on Tuesday. According to the F.D.A., the other two manufacturers whose breast implants are approved in the United States are Allergan and Ideal Implant, which did not receive warning letters on Tuesday. But their implants have also drawn some illness-related complaints from women. Plastic surgeons and implant manufacturers often say breast implants are the most intensely studied of all medical devices. But critics and patient advocates say most studies done to date are flawed.“When plastic surgeons tell women that ‘this is the most studied medical device in the world,’ women assume that means they are proven safe,” said Diana Zuckerman, president of the National Center for Health Research in Washington, D.C., who has been advising advocates for patients with implant-related illness. But, “we still don’t know what percentage of women become seriously ill from their breast implants. We still don’t know why some women get sick right away, some get sick years later and some never get sick.”Dr. Zuckerman, trained in psychology and epidemiology, will speak at the F.D.A. meeting next week. She wrote a 40-page analysis of breast implant studies, and found that most had not tracked long-term outcomes, or had lost too many participants. In addition, she said, the studies focused only on diseases with specific diagnoses, while ignoring symptoms like joint pain and chronic fatigue. And they were generally too small to detect rare diseases, and were funded by implant manufacturers or plastic surgery associations that had a stake in the outcomes.Newer studies looking at long-term outcomes have found disproportionately high rates of some uncommon chronic diseases among women with implants, though these studies show only associations and do not prove a cause-and-effect relationship.Plastic surgeons at M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston who looked at the long term outcomes of 99,993 women with silicone implants reported finding they had six, seven and eight times the normal population rates of rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma (a connective tissue disease) and Sjogren syndrome (an autoimmune disorder), all of which are relatively rare diseases.An author of the study, Dr. Mark Clemens, cautioned that it did not prove cause and effect, and said in an interview, “The overarching message is that breast implants are reasonably safe and have high patient satisfaction, but also have complications that patients should be made aware of.”Critics said the study, published in Annals of Surgery in September, did not adjust for underlying differences between women with and without implants, and that the data, drawn from the F.D.A.’s own database, was flawed because of high dropout rates. “All the evidence we have to date is that implants are safe,” said Dr. Amy S. Colwell, a plastic surgeon at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston who wrote an editorial criticizing the study, and who is a consultant for Allergan, an implant manufacturer.An Israeli study published in December that was based on a health insurer’s medical records, compared 24,651 women with silicone breast implants to 98,602 similar women without implants, and found that those with implants had a 22 percent increase in the risk of having any auto-immune or rheumatic disorder. It also found higher rates of Sjogrens, scleroderma and rheumatoid arthritis, as well as other illnesses.“Implants are not so innocent as presented,” said Dr. Howard Amital, a rheumatologist who was the study’s senior author. Though he acknowledged the study does not prove a causal relationship, he said that the association between implants and the disorders “is highly indicative.” AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersGENEVA — The number of measles cases worldwide nearly quadrupled in the first quarter of 2019 to 112,163 against the same period last year, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Monday, citing provisional data. Higher rates of the preventable but contagious disease - which can kill a child or leave it blind, deaf or brain-damaged - have been recorded in all regions, the United Nations agency said in a statement, appealing for better vaccination coverage.Fresh outbreaks have hit the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Madagascar, Myanmar, the Philippines, Sudan, Thailand and Ukraine, "causing many deaths - mostly among young children", the WHO said.It gave no figures for fatalities but noted it estimates that only one in 10 cases is reported globally."Over recent months, spikes in case numbers have also occurred in countries with high overall vaccination coverage, including the United States of America as well as Israel, Thailand, and Tunisia, as the disease has spread fast among clusters of unvaccinated people," the WHO statement said.U.S. federal health officials said on Monday the number of confirmed cases of measles in the United States this year jumped by nearly 20 percent in the week ended April 11 - the country's second-worst outbreak in nearly two decades.A growing and vocal fringe of parents in the United States oppose measles vaccines in the belief, contrary to scientific evidence, that ingredients in the vaccines can cause autism or other disorders.AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Rachael CombeTHE COLLECTED SCHIZOPHRENIAS EssaysBy Esmé Weijun WangIn an era when many Americans feel on the edge of a nervous breakdown, when paranoia reigns, and reality has turned slippery, Esmé Weijun Wang’s collection of essays about the line between sanity and psychosis is particularly well timed. Wang, the Whiting Award-winning author of the 2016 debut novel “The Border of Paradise,” comes to the topic honestly. She has experienced multiple psychotic breaks and hospitalizations, beginning nearly 20 years ago in her freshman year at Yale University.This story may sound familiar: “The brilliant female student who ends up in an asylum” is a well-trod literary genre both in fiction and nonfiction (Sylvia Plath’s “The Bell Jar”; Susanna Kaysen’s “Girl, Interrupted”; Kay Redfield Jamison’s “An Unquiet Mind”; Elizabeth Wurtzel’s “Prozac Nation”; Elyn R. Saks’s “The Center Cannot Hold,” to name just a few), and “The Collected Schizophrenias” is, indisputably, an addition to this lineage.However, Wang’s book is also a departure from these more narrative-driven works. In Wang’s kaleidoscopic essays, memoir has been shattered into sliding and overlapping pieces so that the story of her life subtly shifts from essay to essay. The images and insights Wang summons from these shards are sometimes frustrating, but often dazzling, and worth the reconstructive work, especially in the places where Wang is able to illuminate the lived experience of psychosis, transforming schizophrenia from its popular depiction as a soul-erasing demonic possession to simply another form of human consciousness.Wang begins the book on relative terra firma: In an essay titled “Diagnosis,” she lays out the basics of not only her own diagnosis, schizoaffective disorder, but also the other flavors of schizophrenia. She quotes liberally from the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (D.S.M.-5). She covers the history of psychosis from the ancient Egyptians, who attributed it to a poisoned heart and uterus, to Eugen Bleuler, the early-20th-century Swiss psychiatrist who coined the term “schizophrenia.” She runs through the nature and nurture of schizophrenia and theories about the possible evolutionary utility of the disease (ranging from schizophrenia being an unfortunate stowaway on genes for communication and creativity to schizophrenics as “ad hoc ‘cult leaders’ whose bizarre ideas split off chunks of the human population”).However, in a pattern she’ll repeat in subsequent essays, almost as soon as Wang has established a shared reality between herself and the reader — schizophrenia exists and here are its parameters — she begins to undermine that reality. She points out the dehumanizing aspect of her D.S.M.-5 diagnosis — “it shrink-wraps the bloody circumstance with objectivity until the words are colorless” — and describes the D.S.M. as “like the Judeo-Christian Bible, one that warps and mutates as quickly as our culture does.” She raises the idea that “my experiences with psychosis are a spiritual gift rather than a psychiatric anomaly.” And she makes clear the mind-altering power of the diagnosis itself: “Giving someone a diagnosis of schizophrenia will impact how they see themselves. It will change how they interact with friends and family. The diagnosis will affect how they are seen by the medical community, the legal system, the Transportation Safety Administration and so on.”The first half of “The Collected Schizophrenias” spirals around the human rights of mentally ill people. Wang considers the ethics of involuntary treatment (having experienced it, including being put into restraints, she’s against it). She highlights the irony and pathos of her strenuous efforts to seem more “high-functioning” than other people with schizophrenia by keeping her signature red lipstick crisp, wearing designer clothing, flashing her wedding band and exalted alma maters (she attended both Yale and Stanford: “‘I went to Yale’ is shorthand for I have schizoaffective disorder, but I’m not worthless”), and, hilariously, when involuntarily hospitalized in Louisiana, trouncing “the other patients in a mandatory group therapy word game, not allowing anyone else to score a point.” In the wryly titled essay “Yale Will Not Save You,” she argues that universities are not doing enough to accommodate mentally ill students (and delivers perhaps the most evocative description ever of a swampy New Haven late summer as “hot and damp like the inside of a feverish mouth”).Wang’s essay on her and her husband’s decision not to have children (“The Choice of Children”) is the saddest and most successful in the book. Wang is able to show off her novelist’s eye for detail, character and dialogue in her description of her time spent working at a camp for children with bipolar disorder. And her prismatic approach to ethical questions serves her especially well here: Would Wang be heartbroken if her child were “like her”? Is being like Wang so very bad? Would Wang’s child hate her? Or might Wang, mindful of her illness, be an exceptionally good parent?In later essays, Wang examines various types of delusions, from the banality of children’s imaginary games to the immersive experience of an IMAX film, and lays bread crumbs from these familiar landmarks most of us have experienced to the most exotic forms of psychosis she has suffered (Wang once became convinced that she was dead and living in an eternal hell in a rare syndrome called Cotard’s delusion). Her descriptions of what it’s like to descend into psychosis are viscerally enlightening: “The more I consider the world, the more I realize that it’s supposed to have a cohesion that no longer exists, or that it is swiftly losing — either because it is pulling itself apart, because it has never been cohesive, because my mind is no longer able to hold the pieces together, or, most likely, some jumbled combination of the above.” She continues that it “feels like breaking through a thin barrier to another world that sways and bucks and won’t throw me back through again, no matter how many pills I swallow or how much I struggle to return.”In the last two essays of the book, Wang gives the kaleidoscope two more dizzying turns. First she raises the prospect that she may not have schizophrenia after all, but “neuroborreliosis” as a result of a “controversial” diagnosis of late-stage Lyme disease, a diagnosis she chooses to believe — and seeks exhausting and expensive out-of-pocket therapies for — despite a stern warning from her Stanford neurologist to stop these treatments. In the final essay, she finds a spiritual mentor, whom Wang pays to teach her about the “sacred arts,” and returns to the idea of schizophrenia as a spiritual gift. Her guru opines, for example, that Wang’s Cotard’s delusion that she was dead might have been a really dramatic way of Wang’s “ensouled part” telling the rest of her about the undiagnosed Lyme disease.At times, the pervasive disorientation Wang employs in these essays — the zigzagging narrative, the tangled sense of time, the repetitions, the abrupt announcements of ever more diagnoses (PTSD, bipolar disorder, fibromyalgia, Lyme) — can be distracting. One alternately wishes Wang had been subjected to more disciplined editing and to more questioning of her vantage point. At other times, her multifaceted arguments can be gratifyingly mind-expanding. Just as the reader is beginning to despair that Wang is as charming but unreliable a narrator as Holden Caulfield, she observes that one of the hallmarks of being a psychiatric patient is “that you will not be believed about anything. A corollary to this feature: Things will be believed about you that are not at all true.” While the reader may not become more trusting of Wang’s perspective after reading these essays, she will certainly become more likely to challenge her own.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Southall[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]On paper, a 31-year-old man found to have serious mental illnesses was released from a New York state prison in September 2017 after serving 10 years behind bars for two robberies.But in reality, the man, who asked to be identified by his initials C.J., still wakes up each day inside a maximum-security prison in Stormville. Though he is technically free, he is still confined to a cell because of a Kafkaesque bureaucratic dilemma: The state requires people like him to be released to a supportive housing facility, but there is not one available.Lawyers for C.J. and five other mentally ill men filed a federal lawsuit in Manhattan on Wednesday seeking to force Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to address a shortage of housing for people with serious mental illnesses who need help adjusting to life outside prison walls.The men are no longer being held in prison because they committed offenses, their lawyers argue, but because the state has determined they are likely to become homeless once released — a practice they contend amounts to discrimination under federal civil rights laws.Four of the men, including C.J., have finished their maximum prison sentences and maintain their confinement also violates their constitutional rights to due process and protections against cruel and unusual punishment. The plaintiffs have asked the court to allow them to proceed anonymously because their lawsuit discusses sensitive personal information and they fear retaliation from prison guards.Corrections records indicate the men are in “residential treatment facilities” — housing where residents are able to move about freely to seek jobs, visit family and pursue educational opportunities.But the lawsuit says that label, as the state has applied it to 13 prisons, is a fraud, because the men are being held and treated as other prisoners are. They are locked in cells that have room for a bed and a few possessions. They are required to wear inmate uniforms. They cannot receive packages.“Though labeled ‘releasees,’ they remain prisoners in every respect,” the complaint said.The state continues to hold the men “because they are unable to secure a community-based mental health housing placement that does not exist due to lack of available beds,” the complaint said. In effect, the state has lengthened their incarceration, “undermining the most basic principle undergirding the criminal justice system: that a criminal sentence, once imposed by a judge, means what it says,” the lawsuit saidThe lawsuit, which names the state corrections department and mental health office as defendants, was filed by the Legal Aid Society and Disability Rights New York, who are seeking class-action status on behalf of all inmates held in state prisons beyond their release dates solely because they are waiting to be placed in supportive housing.It remained unclear on Wednesday how many mentally ill people were being held in prison past their release dates.Jessica Riley, a spokeswoman for the state Office of Mental Health, declined to comment on the allegations in the lawsuit, but said the state has “one of the most robust supportive housing networks in the nation for individuals with mental illness,” with about 44,000 units.C.J. has been diagnosed with bipolar II disorder and antisocial personality disorder, court papers said. As his release date approached, he was enrolled in a re-entry program that was preparing him to be set free in Orange County, where he was looking forward to seeing his daughter for the first time since he went to prison. He had obtained a G.E.D. and a vocational certificate in prison and hoped to get a job.But the day before he was scheduled to be released, C.J. was transferred to another prison, and later, to the Green Haven Correctional Facility in Stormville. His mental condition has worsened since his release date passed, and he has been repeatedly placed on suicide watch, according to the lawsuit.“Every day is hard, very hard,” C.J. said in written responses to questions from The New York Times. “I wake up and I look around and I don’t understand why I am here.”The lawsuit does not seek an order requiring the six men to be freed. Rather, it asks that the state remove “the only barrier to their release” by creating more supportive housing for mentally ill people being released from prison.The complaint cites a 1999 Supreme Court ruling in Olmstead v. L.C., which held that public institutions must provide community-based services to people with mental illnesses who need and desire them.For decades since the civil rights movement, public pressure had built on states to take mentally ill people out of psychiatric hospitals and place them in settings where they could participate in society, an effort called “deinstitutionalization.”But over the years, as psychiatric hospitals closed and lawmakers toughened crime and sentencing policies, more people with mental illnesses wound up incarcerated. Though prisons and jails developed treatment programs, few of them were effective, advocates for the mentally ill said.About 4,000 people receiving mental health treatment in New York State prisons are released each year, and more than half of them have serious disorders like schizophrenia that severely limit their ability to function independently, according to the state Office of Mental Health.Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has committed the state to building 20,000 new supportive housing units, and state lawmakers so far have allocated $2.6 billion to create the first 6,000 units by 2021.But the lawsuit asserts that, under Governor Cuomo, the Office of Mental Health has neglected requests from counties across the state to build additional housing for former prisoners with mental disorders.Such housing programs, where residents receive psychiatric care and learn skills like cooking and using mass transit, offer opportunities to participate in public life that prisons do not, mental health advocates say.But waiting lists have grown longer as the state has eliminated beds from its psychiatric hospitals. The roughly 44,000 spaces available for the mentally ill are about half of what is needed, said Antonia Lasicki, the executive director of the Association for Community Living, which represents supportive-housing operators.AdvertisementSupported byAlexandra Paige Lewisohn and Shawn Robert Telvi are to be married March 3 at their apartment in Manhattan by Rabbi Michael A. White. On May 26, Rabbi Meir Triebitz, the groom’s uncle, is to lead the couple in a ceremony at the Four Seasons Hotel in Florence, Italy.The bride, 28, is a speech language pathologist at Public School 126 in Manhattan. She graduated from the University of Michigan and received a master’s degree in communicative sciences and disorders from N.Y.U.She is the daughter of Jodie Lewisohn and Clifford H. Lewisohn of Roslyn, N.Y. The bride’s father is a title insurance consultant in New York and New Jersey. He is on the Village of East Hills Architectural Review Board in Nassau County, N.Y. Her mother is the executive director of Erealty Title Agency in Greenvale, N.Y.The groom, 29, works in Brooklyn as the assistant to the executive producer of the Showtime television series “Ray Donovan,” a drama about a Hollywood fixer. He graduated from Indiana University.AdvertisementSupported byHuge pools of health data collected over the past generation allow you to pick many of your child’s genetic traits. Are you comfortable with that?By Jamie MetzlMr. Metzl is author of the forthcoming “Hacking Darwin: Genetic Engineering and the Future of Humanity.”The year is 2045. The genomes of four billion humans have been sequenced, creating a huge pool of genetic information accessible to researchers. This process had been well underway in 2019, but accelerated rapidly once many countries realized that understanding human biology was the ultimate big data problem and a key to reducing health care costs and enhancing national competitiveness. Widely sharing deeply personal health information had alarmed privacy advocates. But supporters of sharing genetic data argued convincingly that the benefits to society outweighed the privacy concerns of individuals. The debate may have once seemed abstract. But now you are in a fertility clinic and the issues are fast becoming real.The cascade of numbers overwhelms you as the doctor splashes the spreadsheet across the digital walls of her office.“I hope you can see the wonder and possibility in these figures,” she says, trying to put you at ease.As you sit in the spa-like clinic, it’s hard to imagine it was just last week when your assistant placed the miniature device on your arm that painlessly suctioned out a small amount of blood and started you on this journey. The spark of life that used to begin in bedrooms and the back seats of cars was now migrating out of the human body and into the lab.“Take your time,” the doctor continues. “You need to first select the early- stage embryo optimal for you. The numbers across the top list the 300 options for you that we’ve prescreened from the initial 10,000. The column down the left lists all the disorders and traits influenced by genetics that we have some ability to predict. The numbers populating the chart are our best predictions for how the genetic component of each trait would be realized if we selected based on that trait alone. We’re looking for high composite scores emphasizing the qualities most important to you.”You scan the lists  on the walls wondering if a human being can really be reduced to numbers. “Can you really predict all of these traits?” you ask.“These are all probabilities, not certainties,” the doctor says. “Not all traits are equally genetic. And genetics is a trade-off, so we can’t choose to optimize every trait. Thirty years ago we could mostly just identify disorders determined by a single genetic mutation, but in 2018 we started using what we call ‘polygenic scoring’ to make better predictions about diseases and traits influenced by hundreds or thousands of genes. “Our biology is still about as complex as it’s been for millions of years but the technology we’re using to understand it is getting exponentially more sophisticated,” she continues. “There may be magic in humans, but we aren’t made of magic. Our DNA is a type of source code we’re learning how to read and write.”The idea of humans as hackable data sets may be increasingly common but still unsettles you. The numbers on the wall seem to confirm the doctor’s words. “And this 60 means that embryo would be good at math?” you ask, pointing to one of the options on the list.“There are few genetic guarantees,” she answers, “but that embryo would have a greater than average possibility, with lots of other necessary environmental inputs, of being a very good pure mathematician. Comparing billions of people’s genetics with their test scores over the past 30 years has taught us a lot. Many people with the potential to be great mathematicians never realize that potential, but there are probably no highest-level mathematicians without the necessary underlying genetics.”Your mind struggles to build a case for nature as it used to seem. “My mother always used to tell me I was perfect just as I was.”“And you are,” the doctor replies. “We all are. These would all be your natural children just the same as if you had conceived through sex or old-fashioned in vitro fertilization. We’ve simply increased the number of options by turning cells from the blood sample you sent us into the stem cells we used to create more eggs. The great Japanese scientist Shinya Yamanaka won the 2012 Nobel Prize for pointing us in this direction. All of the qualities you’re choosing are entirely your and your sperm donor’s genetic inheritance. We aren’t altering those genetics in any way, just enhancing your choice and limiting your risk.”You still struggle with the idea that the magic of life can be reduced to a series of percentages on a chart. “Is it really that simple?”“Nature is no fool. Evolution isn’t random. It just made some trade-offs for us over the years that today don’t always seem that great. We have to approach all of this with a healthy dose of humility.”Scanning the wall, you don’t see humility. A few low numbers catch your eye. Would it possibly make sense to implant an embryo more likely to get Type 1 diabetes or early-onset familial Alzheimer’s or to die young? You know that people with genetic disorders are just different. Some of them, like some people with autism, even have powers far beyond their so-called normal peers. What would it mean to select these conditions with a simple nod? You fidget nervously. “What if I pick to optimize a characteristic that makes sense today but could be less helpful in a different world tomorrow?” “If our environment changes, we need to adapt,” the doctor says. “But our ability to push changes more assertively has also increased rapidly since the genetic engineering revolution began in the 1970s, especially since our gene editing tools started really taking off around 30 years ago. It’s not yet safe enough to make too many edits to the genomes of human embryos, but we can confidently make deletions, alterations and insertions to alter the expression of a few genes where the potential benefits seem to outweigh the risks — like for increased resistance to some deadly viruses, greater ability to build and maintain muscle mass, or a lower risk of cancer, diabetes, familial Alzheimer’s, and coronary disease. Those are all part of our premium enhancement package.”You are relatively wealthy and living in an advanced country but it bothers you that many others can’t afford or obtain this basic level of service, let alone the premium package. You wonder if it’s right to select human traits as if they were features of a car, and if it’s dangerous to frontally assault four billion years of evolution. You fear you might be fixing one potential problem only to inadvertently create another.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]But then you close your eyes and imagine your grandchildren holding your future daughter’s hand as her mind deteriorates from early-onset Alzheimer’s or weeping at the cemetery after her premature death. Would you really play Russian roulette with your daughter’s fate? Wouldn’t you want more than anything else to give her the greatest genetic opportunity to live a long, healthy and successful life?Your head suddenly stops throbbing. Your mind becomes clear. You open your eyes. “What’s the next step?”“You need to make hard choices ranking your priorities both for the embryo selection and the gene edits,” the doctor says, leaning in. “Picking everything is like picking nothing. If having a good shot at a longer life and an outgoing personality are really important to you, give those your highest ranking. If being a good long-distance runner is nice but not that important, put that lower.”Your mind is already transfixed on the range of possible futures. You breathe in deeply.“Shall we begin?”AdvertisementSupported byTrilobitesResearchers are drawing inspiration from the proteins that they think let hearty water bears cheat time by decelerating their biology.By Steph YinThere are many instances in medicine when it would be helpful to stop, or greatly slow down, time. Doing so could spare a limb from amputation, prevent paralysis after a stroke or save your life following a heart attack.Across the tree of life, there are many organisms that can essentially cheat time by decelerating their biology. Chief among them is the tardigrade, a creature no bigger than a speck of sand that can survive severe temperatures and pressures, outer space and all sorts of apocalyptic scenarios by entering a dormant state called anhydrobiosis.A team at Harvard Medical School is studying tardigrades in hopes of finding medical treatments that halt tissue damage. In particular, the scientists are drawing inspiration from special proteins suspected to help tardigrades achieve suspended animation. They aim to synthesize a version of these proteins that can enter human cells and pause processes leading to cell death.“When somebody is wounded, there’s a window of time they have to get to a medic or a hospital. So our overarching goal is: how do you prolong that time?” said Pamela Silver, a professor of systems biology.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Also known as a water bear or moss piglet, a tardigrade looks something like a croissant with eight pudgy legs under a microscope. The invertebrates live just about anywhere there’s water, from everyday settings — like a parking lot or handful of moss — to the most extreme environments on Earth, like deep-sea trenches, hot springs, the peaks of the Himalayas and the depths of Antarctic ice.During anhydrobiosis, tardigrades curl into a desiccated ball called a tun and lower their metabolism to 0.01 percent of normal. They can stay as tuns for decades and resume business as usual almost immediately after being rehydrated.In 2017, scientists discovered unique proteins, called tardigrade-specific intrinsically disordered proteins, that might help put the creatures’ cells in a protective state during anhydrobiosis.It’s still unclear exactly how these proteins work, said Roger Larken Chang, who directs Dr. Silver’s lab. Preliminary research suggests that they might form a biological glass that physically immobilizes everything in a cell during periods of stress. Dr. Chang is surveying these intrinsically disordered proteins, as well as proteins associated with stress tolerance in other organisms.To lay the groundwork for engineering a new synthetic protein, Dr. Silver and Dr. Chang teamed up with Debora Marks, a computational biologist at Harvard whose lab has created an algorithm that can search millions of protein sequences for recurring patterns.“You can use that, in turn, to understand things about protein structure, function, effects of mutation or, even more so, to generate sequences for design,” Dr. Marks said.In December, the team was awarded a contract from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or Darpa, the federal agency that funds the development of technologies of interest to the U.S. military. Darpa, is particularly interested in protein-based therapies to stall bleeding and tissue death in traumatic injuries, Dr. Silver said.Beyond combat, there are many other potential applications, including refrigeration-free preservation of protein-based drugs, eggs for in vitro fertilization or organs for transplantation, Dr. Chang said. In the very far future, the work could even pave the way for preserving whole, live bodies, which would be useful for space travel or emergency scenarios.“It seems far-fetched, but if we demonstrate efficacy at the level of cells and tissues, it’s possible to start thinking about these things,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiConan O’Brien returns with his revamped late-night show. And “Many Sides of Jane” offers an intimate look at life with dissociative identity disorder.CONAN 11 p.m. on TBS. The late-night host Conan O’Brien unveils his show’s new look and 30-minute format with Tom Hanks as guest star. The revamp will give “Conan” a more casual feel: O’Brien will be wearing fewer suits and will do away with the desk, bringing the audience closer to the action. “If I hadn’t changed this up, I can’t say how many more years I could have done it the same way, every night,” he said in a recent interview with The New York Times. Among the guest stars on this week’s episodes: Bill Hader, Tig Notaro and the cast of “The Good Place.”THE CONNERS 8 p.m. on ABC. The first season of this third “Roseanne” incarnation — brought about by the thorny end to the revival that debuted last spring — wraps up with a momentous offer for Darlene (Sara Gilbert) and worrisome news for Becky (Lecy Goranson). In his review for The Times, James Poniewozik called the show “unsettling and raw and fitfully funny,” and said it feels more like the original “Roseanne” than the reboot did.SIESTA KEY 9 p.m. on MTV. As far as reality series on islands go, “Siesta Key” is definitely more of a “Love Island” than a “Made in Staten Island.” Season 2 opens with a wild birthday party, but surely, drama is around the corner.MANY SIDES OF JANE 10 p.m. on A&E. Three years ago, Jane Hart, a 28-year-old mother of two, received a diagnosis of dissociative identity disorder. In this new six-part documentary series, Hart welcomes cameras into her home to show how she navigates parenting while living with more than nine identities, or what she calls “parts,” and to shed light on a condition that is largely stigmatized and misrepresented by  Hollywood. “The goal is not to get rid of my parts,” Hart says. “It’s to help them work better together — for all of us.”AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader shares some advice from real life.To the Editor:Having been laid off five times, I can add to “What to Do When Your Job Is on the Line” (Smarter Living, Jan. 7).Join a professional organization. Volunteer and get on the board. It’s the best way to build a meaningful network.Consider working for yourself. Make some contacts who are self-employed. I finally became a consultant and, seven years later, am coasting to retirement.Once laid off, don’t let at-will employment (where an employer can dismiss you for any reason) stop you from seeing a lawyer. I received a diagnosis of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder at 49, just months before being axed. A lawyer friend said the Americans With Disabilities Act may apply. He referred me to a lawyer, who got my 11 weeks of severance pay doubled in a settlement. If darkening clouds appear, maybe clear out most of your work area. At my last layoff, I needed to do little more than hand in my badge.AdvertisementSupported byIn Her wordsWe asked readers which health topics they felt needed to be discussed openly, and got answers from an obstetrician-gynecologist. By Maya SalamWelcome to In Her Words, a twice-weekly column where women rule the headlines. Sign up here to get it delivered as a newsletter to your inbox. Let me know what you think at dearmaya@nytimes.com.“If someone speaks to you about your body with anything but kindness and concern, it is he who has a problem.”— Dr. Jen Gunter, an obstetrician-gynecologist Premenstrual dysphoria. Pelvic floor disorders. Endometriosis.These can be serious health conditions for women, yet many of us are reluctant to discuss them, even with our doctors. In fact, the bulk of my knowledge on these and many other issues that affect women’s reproductive health have been passed along to me through word of mouth like some kind of lore.How extensively women are uninformed, to the point that some struggle to articulate possible symptoms, hit home with me recently, after I wrote a column on menopause. (Specifically, it was about how women who were looking to find any information or camaraderie beyond the clinical were generally out of luck. You can read that article here.) As part of the column, I asked readers if there were any other health issues we needed to start talking about more openly — and I received an onslaught of emails. Did you know, for example, that about 50 percent of women will develop some form of pelvic organ prolapse in their lifetimes? More on that below.Here are five conditions, which affect millions of women, explained by Dr. Jen Gunter, an obstetrician-gynecologist in the San Francisco Bay-area who writes The Cycle, a Times column on women’s reproductive health.[Read more from Jen Gunter: “Your Vagina Is Terrific and Everyone Else’s Opinions Still Are Not”]Premenstrual Dysphoric DisorderWhat is it? It’s a severe form of PMS, but PMDD generally includes severe depression, irritability and tension. Like PMS, it starts a week or two before your period, and ends abruptly when your period ends.What to know: For about two weeks of the month, PMDD should be gone. Keep a symptom diary to gauge how long you're experiencing these symptoms and, as always, consult your doctor.EndometriosisWhat is it? It is when tissue that normally lines the uterus grows outside of the uterus, in the pelvic cavity. While this tissue doesn’t shed blood as it would inside the uterus, it does undergo inflammatory changes that it would during one’s period.What to know: It affects 6 to 10 percent of women. For some, it can cause infertility. For some, a few specks of the disease can cause severe pain. For other women, it takes a massive amount of disease to cause pain. And other women have no symptoms at all. Treatments include hormones or excision surgery.[Sign up here to get this column, In Her Words, delivered as a newsletter to your inbox.]Pelvic floor disordersWhat is it? Pelvic floor disorders primarily fall into two categories: the floor being too weak or too tense. (The floor consists of a group of muscles located at the base of the pelvis.) Either condition can result in symptoms that are hard to describe and therefore hard to diagnose, such as incontinence or pelvic organ prolapse, as well as pain, particularly during sex.What to know: A common feeling with a weak pelvic floor is that there’s something stuck in the vagina. Childbirth can exacerbate or cause a weak floor, since tissue that stretches is more vulnerable to age and injury. There is also a big genetic component, and smoking can weaken the floor.A tense floor is more complex, in that women can have it from birth or develop it at an early age. A floor can also tighten or spasm after sexual trauma or an event that caused pain, including a yeast infection. Pelvic organ prolapseWhat is it? It’s the sagging of one’s cervix and vaginal wall toward the vaginal opening.What to know: It occurs normally with age since pelvic tissue, stretchy by nature, is more vulnerable to gravity and aging. Fifty percent of women will develop some form of it over time, and most women don’t get symptoms until it has progressed.The most common symptom is the feeling that something is falling out. But it’s important to note that a pelvic floor spasm, which in many ways is an opposite condition, can cause the same sensation. IncontinenceWhat is it? There are two main types: stress incontinence, when urine leaks when pressure is exerting on the bladder by coughing, sneezing, laughing, exercising or lifting something. And there’s overactive bladder, or having to urinate even though there’s only a small amount of liquid in the bladder. It’s possible to have both conditions at the same time.What to know: A lot of women are not screened for incontinence, and ignoring it can lead to a lot of issues. If it gets severe, it can lead to social isolation. There are effective treatments, including medication, physical therapy or bladder retraining. It can also be controlled with an incontinence ring called a pessary. Injecting Botox into the bladder, a treatment for overactive bladder, is extremely effective by preventing muscles in the bladder from spasming from low volume of urine.______6 monthsThat’s the length of state paid parental leave California’s new governor, Gavin Newsom, is expected to propose this week. It would be the most generous state policy in the nation.______“These young women don’t want to suffer anymore.” A quiet revolution is occurring in West Africa, where women are asserting more control over their marriages. [The New York Times]“There’s a real tension.” As the 2020 primary competition gets underway with Elizabeth Warren’s entry, some Democrats puzzle over whether a woman could beat President Trump. [The New York Times]“They’re feeling more believed.” Reported rapes in New York City have increased for 16 consecutive months, a pattern the mayor said was in part due to #MeToo encouraging victims to speak up. [The New York Times]“Transformation should be accompanied by hope.” Cyntoia Brown, who as a teenage sex trafficking victim killed a man who had hired her as a prostitute, has been granted clemency. [The New York Times]“I don’t want to show my belly. I don’t want to show my scar.” Is it selfish to be uncomfortable with your appearance when you have just given birth to a healthy baby? [New York Times Opinion]“Age is no barrier to anything, really.” A 92-year-old Australian racewalking phenomenon has some lessons for the rest of us about aging well. [New York Times Opinion]______“Fifty-five binocular-burdened bird lovers — 85 percent of them women,” began a Times article in 1958 about bird watchers in Central Park. The energetic group was led by Farida A. Wiley, a bird enthusiast who was beginning her 20th season of tours. She led bird-and-nature walks twice a week, her guests including both experts and the newly initiated. “People think bird watching is sort of funny,” one of the women said, “I used to think so myself. But now I feel we’re more like people who’ve stopped smoking — superior.”AdvertisementSupported byThere are no good alternatives to buspirone, so patients who rely on it are struggling.By Roni Caryn RabinA sudden shortage of one of the safest anti-anxiety drugs on the market has spread alarm among people who rely on the medication, buspirone, to get through the day without debilitating anxiety and panic attacks. Physicians are also expressing concern, because there is no information about when the supply will resume, making it difficult to manage patients.Shelby Vittek, a 27-year-old writer in New Jersey, fruitlessly called dozens of drugstores in New Jersey and Pennsylvania in an attempt to locate the medication after her pharmacist told her the drug was on back-order with no end in sight. She ended up weaning herself off the drug, spreading her last three pills over six days to avoid having to go “cold turkey” before starting a difficult transition to an antidepressant. “I pretty much lost over a month of work, and have just started to feel like myself again,” she said.A 34-year-old New York woman who couldn’t get her buspirone refilled in January said she couldn’t sleep and had such severe panic attacks that she had to use Klonopin, a drug she dislikes because it is addictive. “I’m trying to take care of my anxiety, and it’s giving me a panic attack,” said the woman, a sexual assault survivor who asked not to be identified.A Pennsylvania medical school student received her mail-order shipment of medication last week with no buspirone in it and no explanation, so she scrounged around the house and dug up old pills from missed doses. Last weekend, the student, who asked not to be identified, was so anxious she could not leave the house.“This is potentially messing with people’s clinical stability,” said Dr. Dennis Glick, a psychiatrist in Greenbelt, Md. “When you have a patient with a complicated and balanced regimen, you really don’t want to just arbitrarily have someone come off the medicine.” Dr. Glick said he has been in practice for 34 years “and I honestly don’t recall issues like this interfering with care until maybe a couple of years ago.”Persistent shortages have plagued hundreds of drugs in recent years, from morphine to intravenous fluids, and many psychiatric medications used to treat schizophrenia, as well as some stimulants used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, are in short supply. Some of the worst shortages are of generic, or non-brand-name, drugs like buspirone, whose prices have been driven so low that many manufacturers say they cannot turn a profit on them.One in five Americans has had an anxiety disorder in the past year, according to the National Institute of Mental Health, though relatively few use buspirone, and doctors are of mixed opinions about its effectiveness. But experts say it is a much safer drug than the benzodiazepine anti-anxiety drugs like Valium and Xanax and is unlikely to cause harm from an overdose or when combined with other medications like opioids. It is not addictive, has few side effects, does not cause sexual dysfunction and is remarkably inexpensive.It can also be used to augment antidepressants and help to alleviate sexual dysfunction caused by antidepressants.And it’s almost impossible to replace with an alternative drug because unlike the S.S.R.I. antidepressants, for example, where there are five or six options, there is no equivalent medication that works the same way. “Buspirone is in a class by itself. It occupies a unique niche,” said Dr. Elias Aboujaoude, a clinical professor and chief of the anxiety disorders section at Stanford University School of Medicine.For a patient with anxiety and a history of depression, conditions that often overlap, “you may want to avoid a benzo because they can also be depressants, and buspirone can be a safer, more reasonable option,” he said.Patients also do not have the choice of paying more to buy the brand-name version of buspirone, Buspar, because it is no longer made.Buspirone prescriptions dispensed in the United States rose to 13.5 million in 2017 from 10.2 million in 2015, with the number estimated to reach nearly 15 million last year, according to IQVIA, a health care technology and data analytics provider. The reasons for the increase are unclear, though the opioid epidemic may have made some physicians more reluctant to prescribe highly addictive anti-anxiety medications that can be lethal when combined with opioids.The main reason for the buspirone shortage appears to be interrupted production at a Mylan Pharmaceuticals plant in Morgantown, W.Va., which produced about a third of the country’s supply of the drug. The Food and Drug Administration had said the facility was dirty and that the company failed to follow quality control procedures.Mylan has told the F.D.A. the date for resuming buspirone production is “T.B.D.”“Companies don’t have to tell the F.D.A. how long the shortage is going to last or when they expect it to be back,” making planning difficult for doctors and patients to manage, said Erin Fox, senior pharmacy director at University of Utah Health and director of its Drug Information and Support Services.Most drug manufacturing plants are already running at full capacity so “when one shuts down even for a short period of time, there is no resiliency in the supply chain for anyone else to make up the difference,” Dr. Fox said.Rock bottom prices for some generic drugs are also contributing to the crisis. Consolidation among wholesalers has led to the creation of three buying consortium behemoths that purchase 90 percent of the generic pharmaceutical products in the United States, said Adam Fein, a consultant and chief executive of Drug Channels Institute. These “monster” buyers have squeezed manufacturers on prices, and “some of those generic manufacturers are deciding the profit is so low they can’t make money, and they’re exiting the category,” Dr. Fein said.AdvertisementSupported byletterA Johns Hopkins doctor says there is a need to develop treatments for survivors.To the Editor:Re “A Year Without Tom Brady” (Editorial Observer, Jan. 19):Alex Kingsbury makes the case that despite the scientific evidence supporting the link between repeated head trauma and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., and a decline in youth football participation, America’s sport shows no signs of slowing down. And yet the conversation continues to lack a real investment in treatment options for athletes living with the condition or who will go on to develop it.While efforts to improve diagnosis and prevent C.T.E. are critical, there is an even more urgent need to develop treatments for survivors to improve cognition, restore behavioral control, stabilize mood and reduce the impulsivity that can lead to acts of violence, rage, addictions and suicide.A better understanding of the molecular changes in the brain that result from repeated concussion will lead to innovative and effective treatments that will help rebuild lives, families and maybe even brains.AdvertisementSupported byRunning as punishment for indulging, especially on vacation or at holidays, takes the fun out of both eating and running.By Jen A. MillerWelcome to the Running newsletter! Every Saturday morning, we email runners with news, advice and some motivation to help you get up and running. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.As I dipped a Mickey Mouse-shaped waffle in syrup for breakfast on my first full day in Walt Disney World, I heard a woman say to her friend, “That looks so good, but I’m trying to eat healthy on vacation.”I didn’t say anything to her (I mean, I don’t know her), but I bit back my own deep sigh.You might think that as a person who writes about running, I would endorse healthy eating while on vacation. But I hate this thinking — ditto any story about how many calories an exercise will burn in order to “earn” a holiday food. It’s making exercise a punishment for indulging in something special. I don’t get to eat Mickey Mouse waffles every day, so I’m going to eat them when I can, and not feel guilty about it. The same for pumpkin pie I have once a year, and Valentine’s Day chocolate.If you’re already tallying how much you’ll have to run to combat a special food, that takes both the fun out of the rare treat you’re enjoying, and out of the exercise done to so-called make up for it. (When Runner’s World put one such post on Instagram this holiday season, which was itself an ad for NordicTrack — which has a vested interest in making you feel bad enough about eating to buy a workout machine — they got ripped for it, and rightfully so.)By now, most New Year’s resolutions have crumbled, and one reason that can happen is people make them without the right motivation. If running is something you’re doing as punishment for eating, why would you want to keep doing that to yourself?In 2015, Claire Zulkey wrote an eye-opening piece for Elle about how she was ordered by a therapist to take a break from exercising as part of treatment for a binge eating disorder. The goal was to break the connection between food and working out, and to treat both things like parts of her life, without the amount of one being related to the amount of the other. It worked.“I realized at some point that I am an exercise person now. I pack workout clothes for vacations and use them,” she wrote. “But I could only get here by divorcing exercise from food. I will work out whether the previous night’s dinner consisted of a salad or three slices of pizza and some Oreos.”We run for a lot of reasons, and yes, losing weight and staying in shape is a big one for most people — myself included. But there has to be something more to it than that, or running as penance can become part of a cycle of disordered eating. That’s not good for you, your running or your happiness. And life is just too short to not eat Mickey Mouse waffles for the rare times you’re in Disney World, no matter if you ran seven miles that morning (as I did when I overhead that conversation) or zero miles, as I did on the last day of my trip when I still got the same breakfast — and a Mickey Mouse ice cream bar before I caught my flight home.I am back now, running in the same cold I’d left behind for a few days to hang out with Donald Duck. I don’t regret the waffles.Racing Through the Polar VortexEd Cheserek Runs OnCan You Get Too Much Exercise? What the Heart Tells UsAll the Ways We’ll Beat the Winter Blues This SeasonTime to Put Fluffy and Fido on a Diet?Run Well!AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders differ about the efficacy of medication-assisted recovery.To the Editor:Re “Debating the Use of Drugs to Curb the Abuse of Drugs” (front page, Dec. 30):It’s time to dispense with the artificial “abstinence versus medication” dichotomy. Taking appropriately prescribed medicines helps the individual to achieve and maintain abstinence from the substance that is maintaining the disease of addiction. Ignorance of this has been driven by the fact that the vast majority of “treatment” programs are operated by individuals with no medical training. As a result, deaths due to opioid addiction needlessly continue to occur.Methadone and buprenorphine are not “one drug replacing another.” They provide unique effects, repairing the stress-response system of the brain.Using opioids repetitively leads to significant changes in the brain, especially the circuits that are used to detect stress and prepare the brain to respond to it. Over time, it is the experience of stress itself that creates craving for opioids.By repairing these circuits with methadone or buprenorphine (naltrexone does not do this), the individual is able to learn to cope with stress without the development of craving. It is not abstinence versus medication; it is abstinence, maintained by medication.Robert A. MoranLantana, Fla.The writer is medical director of the Family Center for Recovery and a voluntary assistant professor of psychiatry at the University of Miami.To the Editor:As I read your article about the use of pharmaceuticals to solve the problem of drug addiction, I had to wonder if your reporter has ever met a longtime methadone user who has “solved” the problem of addiction through this government-sponsored method. I have met many. They are virtual zombies, crippled by the drug and stuck in a twilight zone forever.Drugs do not solve drugs. The article continually refers to “experts.” And who might they be? People who run institutions that benefit from this horrific revolving door of addiction and “solution”? Or are these experts employees of the very same Big Pharma that created this problem in the first place?Eric BogosianNew YorkThe writer is the actor and playwright.To the Editor:I have noticed a concerning trend in discussions about medication-assisted recovery. There is rarely if ever any commentary about how impossibly difficult it is to get off methadone and other drugs like it once you are hooked. The withdrawal is often worse and lasts much longer than for other opioids or heroin. In recovery circles, this is often discussed. Many addicts find themselves hooked on more powerful drugs than the ones they were on previously. There needs to be more discussion about how severely addicting these alternative drugs are.Michael WhiteRaleigh, N.C.To the Editor: We are addiction psychiatrists at a university-affiliated residential treatment program that has supported buprenorphine maintenance for opioid use disorders since 2007. Buprenorphine and methadone are lifesaving medications for patients with a potentially fatal disease. Devaluing the recovery of those who have recovered with medication assistance is akin to devaluing the feat of climbing Mount Everest because the climber used supplemental oxygen. Recovery from addiction should not be judged as a competitive sport, and there is no evidence that patients benefit by taking a more difficult and dangerous route to recovery. We agree that medication-assisted treatment does not work for all patients at all times. However, offering it should be the standard of care, and patients should be informed that it has the best evidence for preventing death from opioid use disorders. Programs that do not inform their patients of this may face another source of pressure: malpractice liability.AdvertisementSupported byBy Austin RamzyHONG KONG — At least one person was killed and another was injured in a series of explosions Friday afternoon in the northeastern Chinese city of Changchun, the local authorities said.The police are tentatively treating the explosions as “a criminal case,” the propaganda office of the Changchun Municipal Communist Party Committee said in a statement posted online. The blasts began when a car burst into flames in an underground parking lot, followed by explosions from an apartment building at the Wanda Shopping Plaza, according to the statement.2019-01-25【突发】16时左右长春万达广场写字楼发生连环爆炸，总计炸20余次，据传目前已有一人被炸身亡，并有多人受伤。 pic.twitter.com/VZcsPfJFAoThe explosions sent pedestrians running from the shopping center. Cellphone videos posted on social media showed a series of blasts, some high in the apartment tower and others near the ground level of the building.Beijing Youth Daily, a state-owned newspaper, reported that some residents said they saw explosives being thrown from the building, but a local official would not confirm those accounts.In one video posted to social media, more than 15 blasts can be heard, and at least one was proceeded by an object falling through the air. Some explosions produced loud booms, while others were more modest, like fireworks.In July, a man set off an explosion outside the United States Embassy in Beijing, badly injuring his hand. The police said he suffered from hallucinations and had been diagnosed with a paranoid personality disorder. A lighter, firecracker fragments and three unexploded firecrackers were found at the scene.Elsie Chen contributed research from Beijing.CreditCreditBenedicte MullerSupported byBy Carl ZimmerIn 2011, Dr. Dena Dubal was hired by the University of California, San Francisco, as an assistant professor of neurology. She set up a new lab with one chief goal: to understand a mysterious hormone called Klotho. Dr. Dubal wondered if it might be the key to finding effective treatments for dementia and other disorders of the aging brain. At the time, scientists only knew enough about Klotho to be fascinated by it. Mice bred to make extra Klotho lived 30 percent longer, for instance. But scientists also had found Klotho in the brain, and so Dr. Dubal launched experiments to see whether it had any effect on how mice learn and remember. The results were startling. In one study, she and her colleagues found that extra Klotho protects mice with symptoms of Alzheimer’s disease from cognitive decline. “Their thinking, in every way that we could measure them, was preserved,” said Dr. Dubal.She and her colleagues also bred healthy mice to make extra Klotho. They did better than their fellow rodents on learning mazes and other cognitive tests.Klotho didn’t just protect their brains, the researchers concluded — it enhanced them. Experiments on more mice turned up similar results.“I just couldn’t believe it — was it true, or was it just a false positive?” Dr. Dubal recalled. “But here it is. It enhances cognition even in a young mouse. It makes them smarter.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Five years have passed since Dr. Dubal and her colleagues began publishing these extraordinary results. Other researchers have discovered tantalizing findings of their own, suggesting that Klotho may protect against other neurological disorders, including multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease.Now Dr. Dubal and other researchers are trying to build treatments based on these results. Either by injecting Klotho into the body or by stimulating the brain to make more of the hormone, they hope to treat diseases like Alzheimer’s.The researchers developing these treatments readily acknowledge that they may fail. And other Klotho experts think there’s a huge amount of work left to do first to figure out how Klotho affects the brain.“You’ve got all of this amazing stuff showing a really major impact, but we can’t really explain why,” said Gwendalyn D. King, a neuroscientist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. “That’s where we’re stuck.”But what happens if scientists get unstuck? What if a drug that enhances cognition really were possible?Eric Juengst, the director of the University of North Carolina Center for Bioethics, has been thinking about these questions for two decades — back when such drugs were little more than thought experiments.We tend to think of drugs that enhance performance — say, sports doping — as bad. Drugs that cure or prevent diseases are good. “The scientific community and the public all draw that line,” said Dr. Juengst.When it comes to Klotho, there may be no such line. In theory, such a drug might offer both a way to prevent diseases of the brain and to enhance it.Recent research is giving these questions a sudden urgency, according to Dr. Juengst.“It’s exciting for someone who’s been doing armchair work on this for a long time to see it happening in the real world,” he said. “But it also makes it all the more pressing that this conversation get started in earnest.”In 1991, a cardiologist in Japan named Dr. Makoto Kuro-o began to study high blood pressure. He inserted DNA into mouse embryos, hoping to create a line of rodents that suffered from the condition.Instead, some of his mice seemed to get old too fast. “Usually mice live two years, but these mice were dying after two or three months,” said Dr. Kuro-o, now a professor at Jichi Medical University in Japan.Dr. Kuro-o suspected he had accidentally shut down a gene that had something to do with life span. When he autopsied the mice, he was astonished to find atrophied muscles, brittle bones and atherosclerosis.“It’s like accelerated aging,” he said. He spent the next few years searching for the gene. When he and his colleagues finally found it, they named it Klotho, in honor of one of the three fates of Greek mythology. Her job was to spin the thread of each person’s life.The Klotho hormone is produced in a few organs, Dr. Kuro-o and his colleagues found, including the brain. When they studied mice that lacked the hormone, they found that cognition deteriorated far faster than in ordinary animals.These dramatic results led Dr. Kuro-o and his colleagues to reverse their experiments. Instead of breeding mice without Klotho, they produced a strain that made twice as much as normal. In 2005 the scientists reported that the extra Klotho allowed the mice to live longer.Dr. Dubal wondered if extra Klotho might keep the brain resilient in old age. In one experiment, she collaborated with Dr. Kuro-o and other experts to study its effect on Alzheimer’s disease.They began with mice that display some of symptoms of Alzheimer’s. Like people, they develop clumps of proteins in the brain and suffer a steep cognitive decline.Dr. Dubal and her colleagues bred these mice with Klotho-boosted mice. As the offspring aged, they made the protein clumps that their forebears did. But in terms of learning and memory, they tested as well as healthy mice.When the researchers bred healthy mice to produce extra Klotho, they got an even more striking result. The mice weren’t just resilient — they did even better on learning tests than normal.Scientists can’t run these kinds of experiments on humans to see if the hormone had the same effect, of course. But nature has run an experiment of its own.Some people carry a genetic variation that causes them to produce higher levels of Klotho than average in their bodies. Dr. Dubal and her colleagues identified a group of healthy old people with the variant and tested their cognition.They scored better than people who make an average level of Klotho. “It’s not like they didn’t undergo cognitive decline,” said Dr. Dubal. “It’s just that they started off higher.”In March, Dr. Dubal and her colleagues published a study suggesting that Klotho may also provide some protection from Alzheimer’s disease to people as well.One of the biggest risk factors for Alzheimer’s disease is a genetic variant called APOE e4. Inheriting two copies of the gene can increase the risk more than eightfold.Dr. Dubal and her colleagues found that many people with APOE e4 appeared to be on their way to Alzheimer’s disease even if they had no sign of dementia yet. They had markers indicating a buildup of clumps in their brains.Then Dr. Dubal and her colleagues looked at the people with both APOE e4 and extra Klotho. They had no extra clumps.It’s possible that in these people Klotho is slowing the effects of carrying APOE e4, Dr. Dubal speculated. “Maybe their brains are biologically younger,” she said.A few other research groups have also found promising results in people, but all of the studies — Dr. Dubal’s included — are small. Nevertheless, the combination of results from people and mice have spurred some Klotho researchers to try to turn their knowledge into a treatment.In 2015, one of Dr. Dubal’s collaborators, Carmela Abraham of Boston University, decided it was time to form a company. She and her co-founders called it Klogene Therapeutics.Based on her 15 years of research, Dr. Abraham reasoned that raising Klotho levels in the brain might shield people from degenerative disorders of the brain. Klogene has been developing a range of new techniques to manipulate the hormone.In one line of experiments, they used the  gene-editing technique called Crispr to alter the DNA of human neurons. The engineered cells make more Klotho.Klogene also has been testing compounds that can raise the production of Klotho. “Our dream solution is that you take a pill a day, the way you take statins right now,” said Dr. Abraham.Dr. Dubal is also collaborating on drug research: She’s investigating injecting Klotho into the body. The strategy comes out of a 2017 study that took her by surprise. She was going to observe what happened to mice that got Klotho injections in the brain. But first she injected the hormone into the bellies of mice, to have a point of comparison. Within a few hours of the injection, the mice started doing better on cognition tests.Dr. Dubal is now following up on that unexpected result with a biotech startup to see if injections can prevent Alzheimer’s disease. “The vision would be a shot in the belly,” she said. “But we just don’t know until we test it.”Earlier in her career, Dr. King helped Dr. Abraham search for compounds that spur the brain to make more Klotho. But these days, Dr. King is skeptical about the prospect of a drug: “I think it’s very early to be heading directly there.”Dr. King doesn’t dispute the remarkable results of the Klotho experiments. It’s just that researchers can’t account for them.When Dr. Dubal injects Klotho into mice, for example, the hormone doesn’t actually get into the brain. It must trigger some series of reactions in the body — but no one can say what they are.For her part, Dr. King thinks the priority now is to take a close look at what Klotho does in individual cells.“We’ve got a lot of really big observations, and we really need to understand what’s going on at the cell level that would explain them,” she said.Dr. King and her colleagues have inspected cells taken from a region of the mouse brain called the hippocampus, which is vital for memory. Without Klotho, these neurons grow slowly and don’t sprout a healthy supply of branches. Dousing them with the hormone lets them multiply normally again.Other studies suggest that Klotho can alter other types of neurons. But Dr. King doubts that one hormone can do lots of different things to lots of different kinds of cells.“I wonder if there is something fundamental that Klotho is doing to support the brain,” she said. “If you have this helper around, they function better.”What would happen if Dr. Abraham found her dream solution and invented a pill to raise Klotho levels in the brain?Perhaps people would respond like mice, gaining protection against disorders like Alzheimer’s disease. It’s also possible that healthy people would respond to such a pill the way healthy mice respond to extra Klotho — their minds would be enhanced.For Dr. Juengst, the ethics of such a drug would be tricky to sort out. “Enhancement is not inherently evil,” he said. “We’d all have to give up coffee if it was.”Yet we frown on performance-enhancing drugs because they offend our sense of fair play. Winning the Tour de France thanks to doping feels like a betrayal. If people could raise their SAT scores by taking a pill the night before an exam, that might not seem fair to many of us, either.Dr. Juengst thinks that Klogene’s experiments with Crispr raise some particularly thorny questions. Would it be acceptable to use gene editing to alter people’s brains so that they made more of the hormone? Why not get an early start and alter Klotho in embryos?Surveys about gene editing tend to reflect a traditional divide between diseases and enhancement. People are more inclined to approve gene editing to prevent a disease, and tend to say enhancement is wrong.But if a Klotho-based treatment one day prevents dementia, there may be no way to enjoy those benefits without also accepting its use as a brain enhancement.“I still struggle with it,” Dr. Dubal said. Despite the ethical complexities, she thinks that cognitive enhancement from Klotho could be a good thing — not just for individuals, but for society.“If you were going into brain surgery, you’d want your neurosurgeon to be as sharp as possible,” she said. “Would it be wrong for her or him to take a shot of Klotho before your surgery? Probably not.”But Dr. Dubal does see a risk of injustice if only some people are offered the benefits of a brain-enhancing drug. “Why couldn’t they be available to all?” she asked.Ultimately, though, the most important factor for Dr. Dubal is whether the ethical concerns about enhancement prevent research into Klotho as a way to treat life-threatening diseases.AdvertisementSupported byBy Gabe CohnAs “Captain Marvel” swooped into its second weekend in theaters on Friday, the question wasn’t really whether it would top domestic ticket sales, but by how much.Disney-Marvel can breathe easy. Their latest superhero origin story, the first film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe dedicated to a female superhero, sold an estimated $69.3 million in tickets nationwide this weekend, bringing its North American total to around $266.2 million.That’s a higher figure than the lifetime domestic gross of “Captain America: The Winter Soldier” ($259.8 million), and already makes “Captain Marvel” the 13th-best-selling film in the current 21-movie Marvel series — with room to grow.“Captain Marvel” has done well internationally, too, with $120 million in overseas sales this weekend, according to the studio, for a global total of $760 million. While the figures aren’t earth-shattering, they indicate a solid success for Disney-Marvel.[Read our critic’s review of “Captain Marvel.”]That success came despite attempts by trolls to derail “Captain Marvel.” Ahead of its release, the film was the target of efforts at online sabotage by users apparently lashing out against its star, Brie Larson, who has been outspoken in her support of more diverse representation in Hollywood movies. The campaign prompted the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes to make major changes to its longstanding rules, including the elimination of audience reviews for movies that have not yet been released.Free from any targeted online attack was Paramount’s “Wonder Park,” an animated family movie about a young girl who dreams up plans for an amusement park and sees them colorfully brought to life. That movie sold $16 million in tickets domestically this weekend, according to Comscore, which compiles box-office data. While a far cry from “Captain Marvel,” the figure was more than enough to land “Wonder Park” in second place.The only other newcomer in the top five was Lionsgate and CBS Films’s “Five Feet Apart,” in third. The movie, about a couple whose shared genetic disorder forces them to maintain physical distance from each other despite their growing romance, sold $13.2 million in tickets.An earlier version of this article omitted the name of a distributor of “Five Feet Apart.” The movie is distributed by Lionsgate and CBS Films, not just Lionsgate.AdvertisementSupported byDiagnosisBy Lisa Sanders, M.D.They weren’t looking for a diagnosis, the middle-aged woman explained. Her husband had a diagnosis. They just wanted help figuring out why, even with all the treatments he was getting, he wasn’t getting better.Until a year and a half earlier, her 54-year-old husband had been perfectly healthy. Never missed a day of work, never took so much as an aspirin. Then he got what he thought was the flu. But even after the fever and congestion went away, the terrible body aches remained. He coughed constantly and felt so tired that just walking to the mailbox would leave him panting for air and shaking with fatigue.Still, he went back to work. He enjoyed his job driving a locomotive for a manufacturing plant in rural Connecticut. Besides, his wife told me, he was a guy who needed to be busy. And he stayed busy until, one morning a couple of weeks after starting back at the job, he was driving to work and suddenly found himself rumbling over the shoulder, drifting toward the strip of grass and the woods beyond. All he remembered was that one minute he was on the road, and the next he wasn’t. For the first time since he initially got sick, he was worried.He went to an urgent-care center. A chest X-ray showed fluid surrounding his lungs. And his EKG was abnormal. The nurse who saw the man was concerned. She ordered an antibiotic to treat a possible pneumonia and referred him to a cardiologist.That was the first of many doctor’s appointments but the last one he went to alone. His wife was worried that her husband, a quiet man who seemed to be wasting away in front of her eyes, wouldn’t ask the questions that needed to be asked.The cardiologist ordered a second chest X-ray, which showed even more fluid in the sack surrounding his lungs — so much that it was hard for the man to take a deep breath. The cardiologist sent him to have the sack drained of more than a liter of a clear yellow fluid. It made the patient feel better, but it didn’t last; within days the shortness of breath returned.Two weeks later, when the man saw a pulmonologist, that doctor referred him to have another liter of the same yellow fluid drained from his lungs. The man’s abdomen began to swell with even more fluid. Where was it all coming from? No one could tell him. After the fluid reaccumulated just as quickly, his doctors sent the man to the hospital.There, an echocardiogram — an ultrasound of the heart — showed that he now had fluid in the pericardium, the sack surrounding his heart. The heart could barely pump. He was rushed to the operating room, and a hole was cut into the pericardium to allow the fluid to drain and give his heart room enough to beat normally. A retinue of subspecialists searched for an explanation for this flood of fluids. His heart was strong, he was told. His lungs were fine. His liver was fine. There was no infection, and no cancer.Finally, a rheumatologist found an answer. The patient tested positive for something called Sjogren’s syndrome. In this autoimmune disorder, white blood cells attack the organs that make the fluids needed to lubricate the body. Those with Sjogren’s often have dry eyes because they don’t make enough tears, or a dry mouth because they don’t make enough saliva. They have problems with dry skin, as well as with their joints and G.I. tract.The patient and his doctors were thrilled to finally have a diagnosis. Still, most with Sjogren’s don’t need treatment for the disease, only for the annoying symptoms of dryness and discomfort it causes. It was strange that the syndrome would, in this patient, produce this extraordinary fluid overload. The rheumatologist theorized that a second disease called undifferentiated connective tissue disorder (U.C.T.D.) might be involved. The patient was immediately started on two immune-suppressing medications.He continued to need to have his lungs and abdomen drained of 10 to 20 liters of fluids every couple of weeks. More drugs were added. But when, after months of treatment, he was no better, his wife insisted they get a second opinion. He was referred to a rheumatologist in New York. That doctor suggested still another immune-suppressing agent.The patient was on four of these medications when I first met him this summer. Despite the medications, he continued to have liters of fluid drained from his belly and around his lungs.After hearing about their terrible journey, I examined the patient carefully, trying to find some clue to what could be going on. His arms were thin and wiry, just bone and sinewy muscle; the overlying skin hung loosely, reflecting significant muscle loss. In contrast, his abdomen was huge — the belly of two Santas. The skin there was drum-tight. His neck, like his arms, was thin, and the veins on each side were hugely distended with blood.Once he had dressed and I was able to gather my thoughts, I told the couple that only the heart could cause such a huge buildup of fluids. No, the man emphatically said: My cardiologist assured me that all the tests show that my heart is strong. I told them I’d pore through the thick folder of carefully organized records they had collected and come up with a plan.I didn’t believe it was his autoimmune disease causing all this. Even though he had Sjogren’s and possibly U.C.T.D., he was being treated. And when a remedy fails, you must consider the possibility that what it’s treating is not the cause of the problem, and ask: What else could this be?So I dug and thought and came up with a list of rarities that could cause these symptoms. I put the question to my friend and mentor at Yale, Andre Sofair, an internist on the faculty of the program where I had trained and now taught. His answer was familiar — surely this was the heart. I told him what the patient told me, that his heart had been tested and was in the clear. Andre was surprised but turned his mind to thinking of other causes. He added a couple more items to my list.I sent the patient for more tests, and when they came up with nothing, I thought back to Andre’s first instinct. Was it his heart? In such a setting, I think of the Russian proverb Ronald Reagan used during his negotiations with Mikhail Gorbachev on the treaty regulating intermediate-range missiles: One must trust, but also verify.When the heart muscle has been damaged by, say, a heart attack, it doesn’t pump as well, and fluids can back up. We call that congestive heart failure, and it was one possibility. But the bulging neck veins I saw suggested another, rarer possibility: constrictive pericarditis. In this disorder, the pericardium is injured — usually by a viral infection — and as it heals, it shrinks. Stuck in this shrunken jacket, the heart can only pump a fraction of the blood needed by the body. Could the virus that caused the flulike symptoms at the start of this illness have attacked his pericardium?I sent the patient for another echocardiogram. It showed a heart pumping hard but constrained inside a shrunken, thickened pericardium, unable to process the normal measure of blood. I spoke with his rheumatologist, who stopped all the immune-suppressing agents, and I sent him to John Elefteriades, a well-respected heart surgeon at Yale. Elefteriades cut away the damaged sack. Once he made the initial incision down the length of the scarred pericardium, the blood flow through the heart more than doubled.AdvertisementSupported byPersonal HealthMost women know that reproductive risks to themselves and their babies rise as they get older, but few men realize that their advancing years may also confer a risk.By Jane E. BrodyPeople are becoming parents at ever-increasing ages, a trend that can have implications for the health of the pregnancy, the babies and the women who birth them.But while most women know that reproductive risks to themselves and their babies rise as they get older, few men past 40 realize that their advancing years may also confer a risk.The age at which couples start families has been rising steadily for the last four decades as more couples marry later and delay having children until they’ve completed their education and are secure in their careers.Whereas a woman’s clock typically slows in her 30s and runs down by age 50 or so, it can go on ticking almost indefinitely for a man. Witness these celebrities — George Clooney, Hugh Grant, Steve Martin, David Letterman and John Stamos — who became first-time dads in their 50s or beyond.Since the 1970s the percentage of births to fathers aged 40 or older in this country has doubled, and by 2015 they accounted for 9 percent of births.“For so many years, it was assumed that advancing age only mattered for women,” Hilary K. Brown, a researcher in reproductive public health at the University of Toronto, said. “Paternal age matters as well.” A recent study of more than 40.5 million births in the United States revealed potentially harmful effects of advanced paternal age on a baby’s risk of prematurity, low birth weight, low Apgar score and risk of seizures, as well as the mother’s chances of developing gestational diabetes. The study, published in BMJ and directed by Dr. Michael L. Eisenberg, a urologist and head of male reproductive medicine and surgery at Stanford University School of Medicine, concluded that “more than 12 percent of births to fathers aged 45 years or older with adverse outcomes might have been prevented were the fathers younger.”Dr. Eisenberg, Dr. Yash S. Khandwala and colleagues found that fathers older than 45 had a 14 percent greater chance than fathers in their 20s and 30s of their babies being born prematurely and at low birth weight. The mothers too faced a 28 percent increased risk of gestational diabetes. As the fathers’ ages rose, their babies were more likely to need help with breathing and require admission to the neonatal intensive care unit.The risks associated with older fathers go beyond those obvious at birth. An earlier review of studies published by Dr. Eisenberg and Dr. Simon L. Conti, clinical assistant professor of urology at Stanford, linked paternal aging to an increased risk of babies born with congenital diseases like dwarfism or developing psychiatric disorders like schizophrenia and bipolar disorder and developmental ones like autism. For example, a study of nearly 400,000 men and women born in Israel in the 1980s found that among fathers older than 40, the risk of having a child with autism increased nearly sixfold. Other studies found that the risks of childhood leukemia, breast and prostate cancers were elevated among offspring of older fathers.Lots of attention has been paid to the risks women face by delaying pregnancy beyond, say, age 35, but men have not been privy to comparable concerns about their fertility and possible health effects on a pregnancy or the children they father. Older mothers are typically meticulously screened for possible risks to a healthy pregnancy “while the father’s role in childbirth is often ignored or forgotten,” Drs. Eisenberg and Khandwala wrote.Although the risks of fathering a child in one’s 50s, 60s and 70s are not huge, the recent studies have shown there are sometimes significant long-term societal as well as personal consequences.The challenges start with getting pregnant, which often takes longer when prospective fathers are older, Dr. Eisenberg told me. “Fertility is a team sport, and the runway for men is not unlimited,” Dr. Eisenberg said. A woman hoping to become pregnant by an older man might want to know “how good are your swimmers?” a question that can be answered by a semen analysis.“The ability to father a child declines as men get older,” he said. “Semen quality diminishes — volume lessens with age and the motility and shape of sperm decline a little.” Such changes reduce the ability of a man’s sperm to fertilize an egg.There are a number of possible reasons older fathers may impart health risks to unborn babies. Unlike women, who are born with all the eggs they will ever produce, after puberty men continuously produce new sperm. Mutations can occur and accumulate in the DNA of sperm-forming cells, and environmental exposures can change the genes in sperm themselves. Some of those changes can affect growth factors for both the placenta and the embryo, Dr. Eisenberg and colleagues suggested.“There needs to be a greater awareness of the man’s responsibility to reproductive health,” Dr. Brown said, adding that this responsibility starts with a man’s “preconception health — factors like obesity, chronic disease and behaviors like smoking and alcohol consumption that could affect the health of a pregnancy.”“Given that close to half of pregnancies are unplanned, men can’t afford to wait to get healthy until they’re ready to have a baby.”She added, “While it makes sense to delay reproduction to accommodate educational and career goals, couples should have full access to the risks and benefits of having children now or later. A man’s age has not been a typical part of the conversation.”In an editorial accompanying the report on 40.5 million births, Dr. Brown emphasized that “current findings underscore the importance of including, in reproductive life plans, discussions of paternal age and declines in sperm quality.” She suggested that doctors emphasize the need for everyone of reproductive age — future fathers and mothers alike — to adopt healthy lifestyles that can “pay off in a number of ways, not just in having a healthy pregnancy but also in preventing chronic disease. Physicians should be having these conversations with men, not just women.”Of course, there can be significant advantages to having children sometime later in life than in one’s teens or twenties, maturity and financial security of the parents among them. Older parents may also have more time and patience to nurture their children.AdvertisementSupported byBy Lauren MessmanA British comedy about parenting hits BritBox. And a couple leave New York for the farming life in Nebraska on “Bless This Mess.”THERE SHE GOES Stream on BritBox. David Tennant and Jessica Hynes star as the parents Simon and Emily in this dramedy about the joys and challenges of raising a child with a learning disability, based on the real-life parenting journey of the show’s creator, Shaun Pye. The timeline jumps between the birth of Rosie (Miley Locke), the couple’s daughter, in 2006 and their daily life as parents in 2015, when a seemingly simple outing to the park can seem like a monumental undertaking. Pye based Rosie on his daughter, who was born with a chromosomal disorder, and used experiences from his family’s life as inspiration, creating a heartbreaking and compassionate portrait of a modern family.PERFUME Stream on Netflix. This German crime thriller follows a detective as she investigates the gruesome murder of a young woman whose killer removed the scent glands from her body. The probe slowly begins to close in around the victim’s childhood friends, resurfacing past jealousies, traumas and secrets. The six-part series, loosely adapted from a 1985 fantasy novel by Patrick Süskind, is violent but compelling, and touches on issues of domestic violence and the ways women and men wield power.AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - The number of confirmed cases of measles in the United States this year jumped by nearly 20 percent in the week ended April 11, in the country's second-worst outbreak in nearly two decades, federal health officials reported on Monday.As of April 11, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recorded 555 cases of the disease since the beginning of the year, up from 465 cases confirmed by April 4. The cases were found in 20 states spanning the country.The measles virus is highly contagious and can lead to complications and death, particularly in children. The CDC report did not say whether there have been any fatalities.The U.S. outbreak is part of a worldwide rise. The World Health Organization reported on Monday that global cases had risen nearly four-fold in the first quarter of 2019 to 112,163 compared with the same period last year.A growing and vocal fringe of parents in the United States oppose vaccines believing, contrary to scientific evidence, that ingredients in them can cause autism or other disorders.Five parents filed a lawsuit with the New York State court against the city's health department on Monday, requesting a halt to emergency orders requiring the measles vaccine on the grounds that it goes against their religious beliefs. "There is insufficient evidence of a measles epidemic or dangerous outbreak to justify the respondents’ extraordinary measures, including forced vaccination," said the lawsuit, identifying the parents only by their initials. The city’s Department of Health did not respond to requests for comment.TRIP TO ISRAELNew York City has confirmed 329 cases of measles since October, including 44 since last week’s emergency order, according to local health officials, the large majority among children of the Orthodox Jewish communities in Brooklyn. Six of the additional 44 cases are newly diagnosed, while the other 38 are recently discovered, the New York health department said.Mayor Bill de Blasio declared the city's outbreak a public health emergency last week and ordered unvaccinated people in the affected parts of Brooklyn to get the vaccine or face a fine. It is the worst outbreak seen in the city since 1991, the mayor said.Several people had to be hospitalized, but no fatalities had been reported as of last week.New York health officials said the Brooklyn outbreak was caused by an unvaccinated child returning from a trip to Israel, which is also grappling with an outbreak.Another outbreak has hit Orthodox Jewish families in New York's Rockland County. Officials there banned children not vaccinated against measles from public spaces last month.AdvertisementSupported byTo the Editor:I very much appreciated Marie Myung-Ok Lee’s essay, “Autism as Metaphor: What Happens When a Poorly Understood Disorder Becomes a Literary Conceit?” (Feb. 10). Just as those with autism are more than a diagnosis, they are more than a literary device or metaphor. They are people who deserve a deeper look into who they are.As a developmental and behavioral pediatrician, I feel lucky to have the time to hear stories about my patients’ families, stories that extend to the inner workings of their minds and how they approach the world. I piece together a narrative by interacting with the children, their parents, teachers and therapists — their community. I hope to unite their therapeutic, educational and medical plans into one story, so they are no longer ordering from an often disjointed à-la-carte menu of interventions not tailored to them as individuals.The best support, however, comes to these children from people taking a moment to see them for who they are, beyond the diagnosis and the metaphor.In today’s society, people are in such haste to judge, to fire off a tweet, to create a construct for what they may not understand, that the impact on others is frequently lost. Labels can be useful — until they become a catchall that can oversimplify or misrepresent a person.WENDY ROSS PHILADELPHIAThe writer is director of the Center for Autism and Neurodiversity at Jefferson Health/Jefferson University.To the Editor:Emily Cooke’s review of Stephanie Land’s “Maid: Hard Work, Low Pay and a Mother’s Will to Survive” (Feb. 10) passionately conveys the grueling conditions of professional domestic work. But I wish to propose an alternate perspective to the portrayal of these relationships as universally between “underclass” and “overseers.”In today’s world, with most people overstretched regardless of class status, domestic employment is increasingly common as one way that families are able to make things work — hiring child care, keeping up with cleaning, tending to aging parents. Yet guilt and anxiety, motivated by narratives of self-sufficiency and archetypes of the evil rich employer, prevent many of us from embracing the responsibilities and opportunities of the unique employer-employee relationship.If we can acknowledge that we all require help, we will be more able to develop relationships and social policies that reflect our mutual dependence.CAROLYN SILVEIRA BROOKLYN The writer is communications director of Hand in Hand: The Domestic Employers Network.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sam RobertsDr. Doris L. Wethers, who broke racial barriers in the medical world before gaining renown for research and advocacy that helped lead to mandatory testing of all newborns for sickle cell anemia, died on Jan. 28 in Yonkers. She was 91.The cause was complications of a stroke, her daughter-in-law Lisa Booker said.In 1965, Dr. Wethers became the first black chief of a medical department at a New York City voluntary, or private nonprofit, hospital when she was named director of pediatrics at Knickerbocker Hospital in West Harlem.Knickerbocker, which had a history of refusing to admit black patients, was renamed Arthur C. Logan Memorial Hospital before it closed in 1979.She was later director of pediatrics from 1969 to 1974 at Sydenham Hospital (which was shuttered in 1980) and then, until 1979, at St. Luke’s Hospital Center (now Mount Sinai St. Luke’s). She became St. Luke’s first black attending physician in 1958.Dr. Wethers opened sickle cell anemia programs at all three hospitals, conducted research and helped draft landmark legislation in New York to require screening of infants for the disorder. Over the course of her career at the hospitals, the average life expectancy of children born with sickle cell rose from about 18 to 50.The increase was attributed largely to early detection, infection prevention through the use of penicillin and other breakthroughs that helped mitigate pain and prolong life.Research by Dr. Wethers and her colleagues called greater attention to sickle cell anemia, an inherited genetic disorder that is often thought to affect only black people but in fact can also be found among those of Mediterranean, Southeast Asian, Caribbean, Central American and East Indian heritage.People with this abnormality produce blood cells that are shaped like sickles or crescents. Because the cells are rigid, they can clog capillaries and deprive tissues of blood and oxygen, leading to organ damage, stroke, blindness, severe pain and death. There is still no cure, although bone marrow transplants involving stem-cells have proved successful in some experiments.In 1987, Dr. Wethers was the chairwoman of a National Institutes of Health panel that recommended routine testing for newborn babies regardless of race or ethnicity. New York was the first state to mandate such testing, in 1975, and all states provided for universal screening by 2006.“She was on the front line of patient care long before any federal funding for sickle cell disease,” said Dr. Clarice D. Reid, the former national director of the sickle cell disease program of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health. “She played a key role in many of the clinical advances of the ′80s and ′90s.”She added, in an email, “Dr. Wethers was the consummate clinician and a fearless advocate for improved patient care.”Doris Louise Wethers was born on Dec. 14, 1927, in Passaic, N.J., to Dr. William and Lillian (Wilkinson) Wethers. Her father was a general practitioner who later had an office in Harlem; her mother was a teacher.Her parents divorced when Doris was a young girl, and she moved to Washington Heights in Manhattan with her mother and sister. After graduating from George Washington High School, she earned a bachelor of science degree from Queens College, where she majored in chemistry.“I’ve wanted to be a physician ever since I can remember,” she told the Gartner Pediatric History Center for an oral history in 2002. “When I was growing up my dolls were always in sick beds.”A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018She added, “I’m sure a lot of it had to do with my father, because he was so beloved by all of his patients, and he obviously loved medicine.”Doris Wethers was the third black woman to graduate, in 1952, from the Yale School of Medicine. The second, Dr. Yvette Fay Francis-McBarnette, helped inspire Dr. Wethers’ interest in sickle cell disease, and they, with Lila A. Fenwick, later started the Foundation for Research and Education in Sickle Cell Disease. (Ms. Fenwick was the first African-American woman to graduate from Harvard Law School.)After graduating from Yale in 1952, Dr. Wethers interned at the newly desegregated District of Columbia General Hospital, where, she recalled, she seemed to be less threatening to white people as a black person because she was a woman.“It was one of the few times, except in grammar, where two negatives make a positive,” she told New York Magazine in 1973.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersZURICH — Roche Holding said its effort to expand in gene therapy via the $4.3 billion takeover of Spark Therapeutics remained on track despite failing to get enough votes to clinch the deal and as U.S. regulators continued scrutinizing it.The Swiss company said it was extending its offer to May 2 from the original deadline of Wednesday, having received support from holders of only 29.4 percent of Spark shares. It needs a majority for its offer to go through. A spokesman said Roche remained confident the deal would be completed by the end of June. "All terms and conditions of the offer shall remain unchanged during the extended period," Roche said in a statement on the $114.50 per share offer it announced in February.Roche also said a review of the acquisition by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the government agency which seeks to prevent anti-competitive practices, was taking more time than anticipated and its plans had had to be refiled.It did not give any further detail on the refiling but said it had been agreed with the FTC and with Spark."The FTC review and clearance is required for the deal to be completed and needs more time," a Roche spokesman said. "The deal is not in doubt at all and we expect it will be completed according to our guidance in the first half of 2019. There needs to be more than 50 percent of the shares to be tendered, but we believe our offer to be full and fair and it has been recommended by the board of Spark," the spokesman added.GENETIC MATERIALSpark shares closed at $114.01 on Tuesday. Roche shares were down 0.3 percent in early trade.Gene therapies use specially engineered viruses to deliver genetic material into defective cells, in hopes of improving or potentially even curing an inherited condition.Roche offered more than twice the Philadelphia-based company's closing price on Feb. 22 for a portfolio that includes a blindness treatment that has U.S. and European approval and other projects for hemophilia and neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington's disease.The offer came as rivals including Novartis also move into gene therapy, where treatments for rare, inherited diseases command some of the highest prices in medicine. Spark's blindness therapy Luxturna for instance is priced at $850,000 per patient. The treatment had sales of $27 million in 2018.However Spark faces at least three lawsuits in the United States by shareholders challenging the sale, on grounds that it undervalues Spark's stock and is unfair to shareholders. Roche on Wednesday declined to comment on the lawsuits. Roche Chief Executive Severin Schwan is interested in gene therapies to help compensate for patent losses on his $21 billion per year trio of cancer medicines Rituxan, Herceptin and Avastin, which are facing competition from cheaper copies. AdvertisementSupported byBy Will HeinrichFounded a decade ago by a small group of private dealers, New York City’s Asia Week now includes dozens of shows mounted by local and international galleries as well as auctions at all the major houses. It’s a rare opportunity to see antiquities and esoterica that are otherwise hidden away in private collections.[Read more about what to see in New York art galleries this weekend.]In all, 16 museums and cultural institutions are participating in Asia Week New York, which is running through March 23. Here we explore Manhattan’s most notable exhibitions, along with a sprinkling of interesting gallery shows. And if looking at art from the other side of the world inspires you to travel, consider heading to the Charles B. Wang Center at Stony Brook University for a show of Islamic poster art, or to the Philadelphia Museum of Art, which just finished renovating its Chinese galleries.Suh Seung Won, a pioneer of the process-based Korean painting movement known as Dansaekhwa, or monochrome, started out with hard-edge, translucent rhombuses that evoke unreal architectural spaces. In the large-scale recent canvases comprising most of “Suh Seung Won: Simultaneity” at the Korea Society, those rhombuses have become overlapping bursts of diaphanous yellow and pink. They’re too square to read as clouds, despite the unmistakable glints of blue peeking through, so the mood remains otherworldly. Through April 19 at 350 Madison Avenue, 24th floor, Manhattan; 212-759-7525, koreasociety.org.“Faith and Empire: Art and Politics in Tibetan Buddhism” is an expeditious survey of how Tibetan, Tangut, Chinese, Mongol and Manchu emperors all bolstered their legitimacy by claiming to be reincarnations of Buddhas, gods or previous emperors. A good way to find your footing in a profusion of complex imagery is to keep your eye on Mahakala, a wrathful deity who reappears throughout the show, most notably in a 19th-century Bhutanese painting that pictures him with a raven’s head and a blood-red consort. But look out, too, for an exquisite 18th-century depiction of the Fifth Dalai Lama descending to earth on a delicate rainbow bridge. Through July 15 at 150 West 17th Street, Manhattan; 212-620-5000, rubinmuseum.org.A uniquely rich permanent collection means that every week is Asia Week at the Met. But this week in particular boasts an abundance of must-see works.Written in the 11th century by Murasaki Shikibu, a minor figure in the Heian imperial court, “The Tale of Genji,” a divine parade of assignations, poetic melancholy and intricately cataloged haute couture, has dominated Japan’s imagination for a thousand years. “The Tale of Genji: A Japanese Classic Illuminated” (through June 16) gives a tantalizing sense of just how much decorative and fine art the novel has inspired by including a little of everything, from the heart-stopping calligraphy of a 17th-century copy by Isome Tsuna, with its unusually subtle modulation of thin and thick lines, to a gaudy 19th-century bridal palanquin ornamented with scenes of Prince Genji’s love affairs. A 1631 painted screen by Tawaraya Sotatsu, which sets delicate trees and an ox cart against an intensely stylized green hill, will demolish any convictions you might have had about the difference between abstraction and figuration. And a gilded wooden icon from Ishiyamadera, where Murasaki is supposed to have started her book, might inspire new novels of its own.The fourth rotation of the encyclopedic “Streams and Mountains without End: Landscape Traditions of China” (through Aug. 4) is an unmissable demonstration of how formal conventions, like the treatment of landscape in traditional Chinese ink painting, can be tools for an almost infinite range of self-reflection and self-expression. Highlights include Huang Xiangjian’s epic 17th-century scroll “Searching for My Parents,” inspired by the disorders of the Manchu conquest, and Gao Cen’s contemporaneous album “Landscapes in the Style of old masters,” in which delicate twigs and leaves seem poised to disappear into misty expanses of faded golden silk.And while you’re in the building, don’t forget the staggering colors and hallucinatory visions of the Himalayan miniatures in “Seeing the Divine: Pahari Painting of North India” (through July 21). 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org.SCHOLTEN JAPANESE ART While interned in Arizona during World War II, the Japanese-American art dealer Kakunen Tsuruoka made a series of lush, haunting watercolors of desert scenery. His works are the focus of the exhibition “Captive Artist: Watercolors by Kakunen Tsuruoka” at this gallery, running through March 23. 145 West 58th Street, No. 6D; 212-585-0474, scholten-japanese-art.com.ERIK THOMSEN In “Taisho Era Screens and Scrolls,” extraordinary Japanese screens from the early 20th century combine Western approaches to color and anatomy with traditional perspective and design. Through March 23 at 23 East 67th Street, fourth floor, and 9 East 63rd Street, second floor; 212-288-2588, erikthomsen.com.ART PASSAGES AT JAMES REINISH Look for the 15th-century Quran written with Chinese-style Arabic calligraphy in “Divine Protection: Talismanic Art of Islamic Cultures.” Through March 23 at 25 East 73rd Street, No. 2; 415-690-9077, artpassages.com.FRANCESCA GALLOWAY “Rajput Paintings from the Ludwig Habighorst Collection” includes jewel-like miniatures of mind-bending mythology — and a striking pair of paintings of roosting fruit bats. Through March 22 at 1018 Madison Avenue, fifth floor; 917-943-7737, francescagalloway.com.JOAN B MIRVISS Virtuosic efforts by students of the ceramist Tomimoto Kenkichi span a staggering range of styles in “Tomimoto Kenkichi and His Enduring Legacy,” but none of them can beat a small, brightly patterned sake flask by the master. Through April 26 at 39 East 78th Street, No. 401; 212-799-4021, mirviss.com.HK ART & ANTIQUES LLC A mesmerizing white porcelain water dropper, defiantly plain and asymmetrical, is paired with small notebook drawings by the 20th-century master Whanki Kim in “Korean Scholar’s Objects and Ch’aekkori.” Through March 26 at 49 East 78th, No. 4B; 646-812-7825, heakyumart.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Laura ParkerIn the coming adventure video game Sea of Solitude, the main character — a young woman named Kay — navigates a partly submerged city as she faces a multitude of red-eyed scaly creatures.None are as terrifying as her own personal demons. As the game progresses, Kay realizes the creatures she is encountering are humans who turned into monsters when they became too lonely. To save herself, she fights to overcome her own loneliness.Kay was modeled after the game’s creative director, Cornelia Geppert of Jo-Mei Games, an independent game studio, who struggled after a 2013 breakup. “I felt like I was trapped in a cage,” Ms. Geppert, 37, said of her experience.Sea of Solitude, which Electronic Arts will publish this year, is among a growing number of video games that are tackling mental health issues.Last year, a game called Celeste explored depression and anxiety through a protagonist who had to avoid physical and emotional obstacles. In 2017’s fantasy action-adventure video game Hellblade: Senua’s Sacrifice, a young Celtic warrior deals with psychosis.Other games in recent years, including Night in the Woods and Pry, have delved into self-identity, anger issues and post-traumatic stress disorder. All followed the 2013 interactive fiction game Depression Quest, which asked players to step into the shoes of a character living with depression.These games are a far cry from the industry’s better-known story lines of battlefield heroics or the zombie apocalypse. But as a cultural conversation around mental health grows louder, makers of content are responding. According to the National Institute of Mental Health, one in five American adults lives with a mental illness.“Mental health is becoming a more central narrative in our culture, with greater efforts to normalize mental health challenges,” said Eve Crevoshay, executive director of Take This, a nonprofit that educates video game developers on best practices around portraying mental health. “With that trend comes response from creative industries, including games.” (Take This was founded in 2013 after the suicide of a video game journalist prompted a debate about the issue.)To date, most of the games tackling mental health have come from independent makers, which are typically more willing and able to take risks by exploring unusual subject matter. Sea of Solitude points to a shift: a gamble by Electronic Arts, one of the industry’s largest publishers and better known for its Madden football and Battlefield war games, to invest in the topic.“We were immediately captivated by Connie’s passion and artistic vision for Sea of Solitude, which is unique, beautifully realized and made more powerful by being an important one,” said Rob Letts, general manager of EA Originals, the label focused on publishing independent games.Some in the industry said the interactive nature of games made them more effective than film or television at dealing with mental health. Embodying a video game character who suffers from depression might leave a deeper impression of the challenges of the illness than simply watching a film about the same character, for example.Video games can be “a more effective way of bouncing back from negative moods than passive forms of media like TV or movies,” said Raffael Boccamazzo, a mental health practitioner in Seattle who works with Take This.That was what Sam Rodriguez, 26, experienced after playing one of these video games, Night in the Woods. Ms. Rodriguez, a freelance writer in Atlanta, said a diagnosis of bipolar disorder last year had left her feeling isolated and lost.But she said she felt a connection to the protagonist of Night in the Woods, Mae, a college dropout who returns to her hometown but struggles to reconnect with family and friends. Ms. Rodriguez’s first play-through of the game was extremely emotional, she said, because “I was able to experience the world through the eyes of someone like me, who felt helpless and aimless in life.” She added that she felt especially drawn to Mae’s use of sarcasm to deflect and bury her own problems.While Ms. Rodriguez was already in treatment, she said, the game motivates her to be more honest and receptive with her therapist. She has since become an ambassador in a Take This program, in which she regularly discusses mental health on her social media channels and on the live-streaming platform Twitch.Makers of mental health games said they had seen a similar reaction from other players. After the 2016 simulation role-playing game Stardew Valley — which does not punish players for not completing tasks and creates a slow-paced atmosphere where the objective is to take care of a run-down farm — was released, Eric Barone, the game’s creator, received hundreds of messages, he said. Players wrote to share their stories of how the game helped them cope with difficult periods in their lives.“One story that comes to mind is a person whose little brother had autism, and as a result had great difficulty in relating with him,” said Mr. Barone, 31. “But playing Stardew Valley caused him to open up and allowed the two brothers to bond in a way that was never possible before.”Some makers are now developing games to explicitly promote better mental health. Orpheus Self Care Entertainment, a start-up that was founded last year, is publishing virtual reality games in which players practice mindfulness and meditation through activities like dancing. In one game, players move their bodies in virtual reality to create patterns and shapes that move and change color.IThrive Games Foundation, a nonprofit that aims to improve mental health in teenagers through games and education, is also working on a new mobile game for teenagers who suffer from anxiety. The nonprofit is experimenting with a few different game styles — from role-playing to choose-your-own-adventure — for it. IThrive hopes to test the game by next year.“Asking someone to play with you sets a very different vibe than asking someone to talk about their problems,” said Kelli Dunlap, iThrive’s director of mental health research.Ms. Crevoshay of Take This said the games industry was at a tipping point in how it accepted and embraced mental health challenges. She said she wanted to see more mainstream developers tackle the topic and more support for gamers who spoke out about these challenges.“We know these are not easy changes to make,” she said. “But we want to try.”An earlier version of this article misstated the position of Raffael Boccamazzo, who is a mental health practitioner, not a clinical psychologist.Follow Laura Parker on Twitter: @lauraannaparker.AdvertisementSupported byThe Ethicist By Kwame Anthony AppiahA friend was recently diagnosed with multiple myeloma, a cancer of a type of white blood cell called plasma cells. There is often significant pain associated with this condition, and my friend has been treated with high doses of different opioid combinations, in addition to chemotherapy. My friend lives in Colorado, where he has easy access to medical marijuana, and he asked his oncologist if he could add this to his regimen in hopes of decreasing his dependence on opioids. The oncologist told him that he would refuse to treat my friend if he took any form of cannabis. Given his insurance coverage, my friend does not have the option of changing physicians.The National Cancer Institute states that cannabis may benefit patients suffering from cancer-related side effects. Cannabis is routinely recommended for cancer patients to improve appetite, decrease nausea and alleviate pain. The medical literature is fairly consistent on the efficacy and minimal side effects of cannabis, which has specifically been shown to help patients decrease opioid dependence. There are even some reports that cannabis may be a valuable adjunct to chemotherapy in cancer patients. Is it ethical for the physician to deny treatment based on my friend’s taking cannabis? Is it ethical for my friend not to inform his oncologist if he chooses to use cannabis? D.A. Kinderlehrer, M.D.Let me start with your question about the right of doctors to refuse service. Doctors in the United States can be legally required to treat patients in medical emergencies. Otherwise, though, doctors can mostly refuse service — as long as it’s consistent with whatever agreements they’ve made with their health care organizations or provider networks and isn’t in violation of anti-discrimination laws. There are shortages of doctors in many places, so clinicians — especially the ones with the best reputations — often truthfully say they simply won’t take new patients on board.While doctors don’t have a general obligation to take patients, they do have obligations to patients they have taken. Yes, doctors sometimes “fire” patients they find unpleasant, overly demanding or abusive. But the American Medical Association rightly calls for physicians to ensure “continuity of care” in these cases — which involves making sure that the patient can secure another physician. You say that your friend has access to only this one oncologist. That’s disturbing, if true. In a decent medical system, the ability to switch doctors is a central element in respecting patient autonomy. A situation in which a doctor can fire a patient but not the other way around strikes me as insupportable.As a general rule, what’s more, noncompliance is a poor justification for terminating care. If this oncologist has medical reasons for objecting to your friend’s use of cannabis — if he has specific concerns about drug interactions, say — he should explain them. (I’m assuming your friend isn’t enrolled in an experimental protocol.) If it’s just that he disapproves of legal marijuana use, that’s an abuse of the doctor-patient relationship. Patients aren’t obliged to help their doctors enforce a tyrannical demand, so there would be no moral reason your friend should inform him of his cannabis use. Indeed, your friend might want to consider filing a complaint against the oncologist for making this threat.As a medical matter, though, it’s not a great idea to have a doctor who doesn’t know what drugs you’re taking. Ideally, your friend would enlist the services of a specialist in pain management or palliative care who could work with his oncologist. Treating pain involves subjective considerations that make it very different from giving chemotherapy, which is why people skilled at the second sometimes falter at the first. And if your friend can’t come to terms with this oncologist, the oncologist is ethically required to find him another.I have a friend in a long-term relationship who has always wanted kids but has been putting off getting married to her boyfriend and starting a family. I think it’s because she’s ambivalent about him. I’m worried that she is going to lose her fertility window if she doesn’t leave him soon and find a better match. I don’t want to say anything because I don’t want to add to her anxiety, but I don’t want to see her miss her chance and later regret it. Is it more ethical to share my concern or to stay quiet?Name WithheldEverything you say about your friend’s situation is, if true, known to her. What you want her to do is to draw what you think is the obvious conclusion: that she needs to break up with her partner, find a new one and settle down to motherhood. Perhaps you think that forcing her to face reality will get her to snap out of it and take some new course of action.If you had reason to be confident that your promptings would guide her to a life as a happily married mother, it would certainly be ethical to proceed. You’d be offering a gift of friendship. But I suspect you don’t have reason to be confident about this. And you’ve identified the downsides: adding to her anxiety, sparking her resentment. It is an important maxim, widely ignored, that intervention is a good idea only if it is likely to make things better. Many people think that a mediocre partner is better than no partner at all. And depending on their character and temperament, they may be right.At the gym, I often see a woman who appears to be severely underweight; I can’t help thinking that she may have an eating disorder. I’m not a medical professional, I don’t know her, I don’t work at the gym and I don’t have any information that isn’t plainly visible. I don’t want to intrude on her privacy (for all I know, this woman may have some other underlying medical condition and already be receiving medical care for it), but at the same time, it’s difficult for me to see someone looking so painfully thin. For what it’s worth, I’ve seen this woman at the gym for a year or more, which suggests that her weight is relatively stable, albeit very low. What is the most ethical course of action? And how would it be most helpful to engage with this woman if ethics demand that I can’t simply be a bystander?Name WithheldYou know almost nothing about this woman and have no relationship with her. Unless she’s completely friendless, there’s almost certainly someone who is better placed than you to judge whether she’s ill and, if so, to help her deal with it. Maybe that has already happened.You don’t have very good reason, in short, to involve yourself here. And bear in mind that one feature of eating disorders is a preoccupation with how you look to others; being addressed by a stranger in a gym who is worried by your appearance is likely to exacerbate that problem. Shame is part of the psychic burden of many eating disorders (she may be struggling to recover from it), but so is a profound body dysmorphia. Hearing that she’s too thin may have the opposite effect than what you intend, by making her feel pleased that her behavior has succeeded in making her look the way she wants to look. As I cautioned in my previous answer, we should intervene only when we’re likely to make things better.I recently started a new job. During the application process, I was asked if I would be applying to graduate school in the near future, as their intention was to have the new hire stay on for two to three years. At the time, I was not intending on applying to graduate school, but this has since changed. Must I inform my new employers of my change in plans? There is a chance I may not be accepted into a program or receive enough funding to attend. I also took on personal risk by moving to the other side of the country when accepting the offer. Name WithheldAdvertisementSupported byGraphic ContentBy Hillary ChuteDr. Ian Williams, a Welsh-born physician, started publishing comics under a pseudonym in 2007, the year he began a website devoted to so-called graphic medicine. Currently located in Brighton, Williams is now one of the primary creators of what has become a rich field combining comics and health care, broadly conceived. A group of artists, academics and medical professionals now maintain a resource-rich version of the website (graphicmedicine.org), sponsor an annual international conference and oversee a book series. In 2015 they issued the “Graphic Medicine Manifesto,” a part-prose, part-comics title this paper reviewed favorably. Williams, one of the manifesto’s authors, is now out with his second book of graphic fiction, THE LADY DOCTOR (Penn State University, $24.95), which, like his first, “The Bad Doctor,” is set in a small town in Wales and offers the engrossing perspective of a hard-working and fallible physician. Lois Pritchard, 40, single and a secret smoker, wears a sharp black bob and pointy high-heeled boots. A general practitioner, she also works part time at the local Genitourinary Medicine clinic, treating various problems of genital and urinary origins that the book selectively illustrates, including numerous S.T.D.s (“muck in the fuel pipe,” as one man puts it).Although Lois is an appealingly fleshed-out character, the plot points of “The Lady Doctor” are nothing special: Lois’s mother, who abandoned the family when Lois was small, now wants Lois to help her with a liver transplant; Lois and her journalist buddy take psilocybin mushrooms, in an almost-skippable section; there are standard romantic ups and downs. Instead, what makes this book fascinating is its sensitive portrayal of Lois’s interactions with a range of patients. In recurrent, wordless pages throughout, with his clean and fluid black line art,, Williams illustrates the rhythm of Lois’s professional routine through whom and what she encounters: an assortment of faces, body parts and affects streaming by in an even staccato.While in an early scene Lois and a fellow doctor wonder about their ability to achieve empathy with patients, “The Lady Doctor” itself illuminates something just as profound: her coolheaded receptivity to nominally depressing and gross manifestations of humanity, her rejection of the judgmental in the service of tending to the body. In one scene she removes a curtain finial lodged deep in a patient’s vagina; in another she vomits, in private, after examining a man’s feet; and there are plenty of drawings of genital procedures that may make the reader squirm but that Lois treats calmly and clinically. Lois is human — “Please God, kill me now,” she thinks after the foot episode — but Williams reveals, in his careful attention to her work as a doctor, how seriously she understands her profession and how open she is to patients.Lucy Knisley’s KID GLOVES: Nine Months of Careful Chaos (First Second, $19.99) falls squarely into a different, dominant area of graphic medicine: patient memoirs. There are already meaningful traditions within comics for personal chronicles of cancer and mental disorders (witness American comics’ inaugural work of autobiographical storytelling, Justin Green’s 1972 “Binky Brown Meets the Holy Virgin Mary,” about obsessive-compulsive disorder). And while pregnancy, the subject of Knisley’s book, is not an illness, Knisley details the many junctures in her life in which pregnancy (first, to avoid it; later, to enact it; finally, to see it through) has made her, sometimes quite painfully, a medical patient. The prolific Knisley, 34, has been publishing autobiographical comics since her early 20s (like the recipe-dotted “Relish: My Life in the Kitchen”), and this book covers her most trenchant topic. “Kid Gloves” is the story of Knisley’s struggle to get and stay pregnant, following two devastating miscarriages, and her harrowing delivery: She suffered a seizure, along with dangerous blood loss, and was unconscious when her son was born, later spending a week in the I.C.U.Knisley’s personal journey can be compelling and quite funny — for instance, in depicting her intense struggle with morning sickness, she draws herself sweating and shaded a solid mint green. But the book, with its jaunty colors and friendly black line art, works best as an extended public service announcement. Knisley deploys the diagrammatic features of comics to break down medical and cultural contexts around miscarriage, infertility and pregnancy, along with their symptoms, and she illustrates myths as well as facts, letting them visually stack up against one another. These didactic interludes, often marked off as separate chapters, provide a charming, informative guide; the pages breathe easily, cleverly composed and uncluttered. Knisley is a former art school kid of a certain generation, and “Kid Gloves” is slangy and full of abbreviations and sound effects — “ugh,” “ralph,” “kack,” “yak,” “gak!” — some will appreciate and others will not (I did). Less successful are the many moments when the book, which walks the line between cute and cloying, reproduces black-and-white photo booth strips of Knisley and her husband (and eventually their son) doing wacky, loving things for the camera (lifting up shirts, kissing pregnant stomachs, etc.). The photographs neither add to the aesthetic nor amplify the story; rather, they present a visual layer of self-indulgence to an otherwise nuanced account.The French blogger Emma’s THE MENTAL LOAD: A Feminist Comic (Seven Stories, $18.95), translated by Una Dimitrijevic, picks up where Knisley leaves off: with a household run by a man and woman who are new parents. “The Mental Load” is an uneven collection, but eminently worthwhile if only for the story that provides its title. (That story, which went viral in its original webcomics form in both French and English, is actually called “You Should’ve Asked,” but is commonly known as “The Mental Load” after its central concept.) A computer technician by day, Emma describes her drawings as “ugly sketches,” but with their even blocks of color and rough shapes, her comics beckon in their unpretentious, stripped-down simplicity — despite looking a bit at sea in book form, awash in so much white space on the printed page. As in Knisley’s work, they show how comics can break down something that seems complicated with utmost clarity. The idea of the mental load shines attention on how women so often become, by default, the household manager, organizing what needs to be done, so that a man expects to be asked to do tasks instead of executing them on his own initiative. The story creates an intimate flowchart of household routine; Emma illustrates just how effective even the most basic comics can be at crystallizing social dynamics.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sandra E. GarciaA suspect in the deadly shooting of an off-duty police officer in Chicago over the weekend was targeting the “first Hispanic man he saw” after a dispute with a group of Latino men, the city’s police superintendent said.The officer, John Rivera, 23, was shot in a parked car early Saturday along with a friend, who was hospitalized and is now in stable condition, according to Melissa Staples, the Chicago Police Department’s chief of detectives.Surveillance camera video showed that one of the two men who have been charged in the attack, Menelik Jackson, 24, encountered the Latino men on a party bus in front of a McDonald’s in the River North neighborhood, Chief Staples said at a news conference on Monday. Mr. Jackson, who is black, was punched in the face by one of the men and ran away, the chief said.Shortly after, Mr. Jackson returned but the party bus had left the area, Chief Staples said. Mr. Jackson then got in his white Ford pickup truck and searched the area for the bus but did not find it, she said.Chief Staples said that an hour after the confrontation in front of the McDonald’s, Mr. Jackson approached a car with two friends, Jovan Battle, 32, and another man the police are still searching for. She said Mr. Jackson then shot at the car with a .40-caliber handgun, killing Officer Rivera and wounding his friend.“It appears that he was just looking for a Hispanic person,” Eddie Johnson, the Chicago police superintendent, said at the news conference. “He was searching around for the party bus, the party bus had left the area, so I guess he settled for the first Hispanic he saw,” Mr. Johnson said, adding that Mr. Jackson had confessed.Mr. Jackson and Mr. Battle have each been charged with one count of first-degree murder and three counts of attempted murder. They are being held without bail.Mr. Johnson also said that the authorities “have been pursuing possible hate crime charges since the beginning.”Chris Anderson, a public defender who is representing Mr. Battle, said that his client did not “share the intent of the shooter based on what the state proffered.” He added that Mr. Battle “suffers from bipolar disorder and depression, receives S.S.I. and disability, was denied phone calls, and has a severe, untreated, old and deep cut to his finger that needs medical attention.”Mr. Battle has been ordered to the jail hospital for treatment, Mr. Anderson said.A lawyer for Mr. Jackson did not immediately respond to calls and emails.Officer Rivera’s second anniversary with the Chicago police had been approaching in May, the department said.“He was the kind of officer that we want in Chicago,” Mr. Johnson said, adding that Officer Rivera was a “hard worker, he loved going out on patrol and solving problems.”AdvertisementSupported byDr. Natasha Bhuyan and Dr. Patrick W. Vinck were married Feb. 16 at the Hyatt Regency Resort & Spa at Gainey Ranch in Scottsdale, Ariz. John V. Welsh, who became a Universal Life minister for the occasion and is the maternal uncle of the groom, officiated incorporating Christian elements. Earlier in the day Sri Kiran Rao, a Hindu priest, led a Hindu ceremony.The bride and groom, both 33, met at the University of Arizona, from which they each graduated magna cum laude. They received their medical degrees from the University of Arizona College of Medicine in Tucson. Both are family physicians.The bride is the regional medical director of emerging markets at One Medical in Phoenix, a primary care group with 80 offices nationwide that does both office and virtual visits. She is responsible for the Phoenix, Los Angeles, Seattle and San Diego areas. She is also on the faculty at the University of Arizona College of Medicine - Phoenix, where she teaches medical students at a clinic for homeless patients. She is on the board of Planned Parenthood Federation of America in New York.She is a daughter of Sewali Bhuyan and Karuna N. Bhuyan of Phoenix. Her father retired as the supervisor of a team focusing on pest control and detection at the Department of Agriculture in Phoenix, and is now an agricultural consultant focusing on insects and disease.The groom is the Arizona medical director of PopHealthCare in Tempe, Ariz., an in-home care provider based in Nashville for medically complex patients. He is also a founder of AmniCam, a business in Phoenix offering three-dimensional measurement aids for labor monitoring.AdvertisementSupported byResearchers hope the techniques can be applied to help people with Alzheimer’s. By Pam BelluckCould people’s eyes and ears help fix the damage Alzheimer’s disease does to the brain? Just by looking at flashing light and listening to flickering sound?A new study led by a prominent M.I.T. neuroscientist offers tantalizing promise. It found that when mice engineered to exhibit Alzheimer’s-like qualities were exposed to strobe lights and clicking sounds, important brain functions improved and toxic levels of Alzheimer’s-related proteins diminished. What’s more, the rapid-fire soundtrack appeared to make mice better at cognitive and memory skills, like navigating mazes and recognizing objects. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Of course, mice are not people. And many drugs that have helped Alzheimer’s-engineered mice haven’t done much for people with Alzheimer’s, which affects 44 million people worldwide, including 5.5 million Americans. Also, because the technique didn’t have long-lasting effects — results faded about a week after the sensory stimulation was stopped  — any therapy developed from the research might have to be repeated regularly. Still, seeing that a noninvasive daily dose of light and sound could have such significant effects in mice give some experts reason for optimism.“It’s exciting, I think,” said Dr. Lennart Mucke, director of the Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, who was not involved in the study. “Reading the paper made me quite enthusiastic about seeing this move forward into some well-crafted clinical trials.”The experiments were led by Li-Huei Tsai, director of MIT’s Picower Institute for Learning and Memory. She and her colleagues showed that light and sound delivered to mice at a certain frequency — 40 hertz or 40 flashes or clicks per second — appears to synchronize the rhythm of the brain’s gamma waves, which is disrupted in patients with Alzheimer’s. Gamma waves are among several types of electrical brain waves believed to be involved in concentration, sleep, perception and movement.Somehow — neither Dr. Tsai nor outside experts are quite sure how — 40 hertz produces a gamma-wave oscillation that appears to increase activation of cells called microglia, which perform trash-clearing and immune-regulating functions. The microglia became more efficient at chewing up the amyloid protein that forms toxic plaques in Alzheimer’s. Another Alzheimer’s-related protein, tau, which forms tangles, also decreased. And in the sound experiments, brain blood vessels also worked better, further helping clear harmful proteins. Especially striking was that these effects occurred in brain areas active in memory formation, planning and decision-making, and that the mice became better at learning and remembering.“The effects on cognitive function are pretty big,” said Dr. Walter Koroshetz, director of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, which funds some of Dr. Tsai’s work. He said the results of the study, published Thursday in the journal Cell, are “definitely something that I don’t think anybody could have predicted.”Enhancing or regulating electrical brain activity through techniques like surgically implanted electrodes is used to treat some other conditions, like Parkinson’s and obsessive-compulsive disorder. And previous research has shown that the activity of gamma waves, the highest-frequency waves ranging from 25 to 140 hertz, decreases in the brains of patients with Alzheimer’s.Intrigued, Dr. Tsai began experimenting with light, and in 2016, she and colleagues showed, after trying different frequencies, that light flickering at 40 hertz, beamed at mice an hour daily for a week, decreased amyloid and tau and revved up microglia in the brain’s visual cortex.Aiming to reach other brain areas, she tried sound, settling on clicks because “your brain seems to be able to perceive clicks more than a tone,” she said.Her team found that 40 hertz clicks, broadcast from speakers over mouse enclosures, produced the same brain changes in the auditory cortex and the nearby hippocampus, an area active in forming memories that is damaged early in Alzheimer’s. The mice also performed better at maze navigating and recognizing objects they had seen before.Light and sound combined magnified the brain effects and extended them to the prefrontal cortex, a key area for planning and executing tasks.“it’s stunning that the intervention had beneficial effects on so many different aspects of Alzheimer-like pathology,” said Dr. Mucke, who is also a professor of neurology and neuroscience at University of California San Francisco. “On the other hand, it shouldn’t be surprising that the brain is influenced by outside stimuli because what it was designed for was to adapt to a changing environment.”The results also dovetail with findings by Dr. Mucke and his colleagues, who have genetically altered brain cells called interneurons, which he likened to conductors of the brain’s orchestra. The altered interneurons enhanced gamma rhythm activity, generating cognitive improvement in mice. “When there isn’t proper brain rhythm, there is disharmony and everyone is sort of playing when they want to, a little like the tuning up of an orchestra,” he said.His colleagues are also developing a drug that would have similar effects. So there might be several ways to enhance gamma rhythms, he said.Because the brain changes subsided somewhat after a week without the light or sound treatment, experts said it’s likely that people would need such stimulation consistently, essentially a sensory version of a daily pill to control a chronic condition.Dr. Tsai’s team has tested light and sound on healthy people, using a four-by-three-foot light panel and high-quality stereo speakers, “so the sound is more tolerable to humans, because it’s not melody, it’s clicks,” she said. Electroencephalogram measurements show the desired gamma-wave effect, she said, and “nobody complains about any discomfort or headache or anything.”They will soon start testing on people with mild Alzheimer’s. Dr. Tsai and a co-author, Edward Boyden, co-director of the M.I.T. Center for Neurobiological Engineering, have also co-founded a company, Cognito Therapeutics, which is testing a goggles-like light-and-sound device on Alzheimer’s patients, she said. Dr. Tsai said the company is not involved in her team’s academic research, which was funded by several foundations and the National Institutes of Health.Experts cautioned that people should wait for clinical trial results and shouldn’t suddenly start illuminating their homes with disco strobes or pipe clicking sounds through their earbuds.Still, said Dr. Koroshetz, sensory treatment is likely to be safe for most people.AdvertisementSupported byBy Sandra E. GarciaThe daytime talk show host Wendy Williams announced on her show on Tuesday that she was in rehab and staying in a sober-living facility.“You know me for being a very open and truthful person, and I’ve got more to the story for you,” Ms. Williams said to the camera, her voice breaking, while standing in the audience.“For some time now, and even today and beyond, I have been living in a sober house,” Ms. Williams said, holding back tears.She went on to explain her new daily routine, which she said included being driven around the tristate area by her “24-hour sober coach,” doing two hours of Pilates after she tapes her show and going to meetings.Ms. Williams, 54, also visits her “brothers and sisters caught up in their addiction and looking for help,” she said. After that, she is driven back to the sober-living home where she lives with “a bunch of smelly boys who’ve become my family,” she said. Then it’s lights out by 10 p.m.Ms. Williams also discussed her history of drug addiction.“I had a struggle with cocaine in my past, and I never went to a place to get the treatment,” she said. “I don’t know how except God was sitting on my shoulder and I just stopped,” she added.In January Ms. Williams announced that she was going on a three-week hiatus from her show to focus on her health after she was diagnosed with Graves’ disease, an immune system disorder that results in an overactive thyroid.After the actors Nick Cannon and Jerry O’Connell stepped in as guest hosts, she returned to the show in early March.Ms. Williams, who spent 20 years as a radio show host before she began hosting “The Wendy Williams Show” in 2008, said that no one but her husband and her son was aware that she was living in a sober-living facility.“No one knew because I look so glamorous on here,” Ms. Williams said.Ms. Williams, who memorably had a hostile interview with Whitney Houston in 2003 after she asked Ms. Houston about her drug use on the radio, broke down on her show in 2012 shortly after Ms. Houston died because, she said, she connected with Ms. Houston’s “demons of substance abuse.”“It’s been almost 15 years since I smoked last from a crack pipe,” Ms. Williams said at the time.“This is my autobiographical story and I am living it,” Ms. Williams said on her show on Tuesday, adding, “Either you’re calling me crazy or the bravest woman you know — I don’t care.”Follow Sandra E. Garcia on Twitter: @S_Evangelina.AdvertisementSupported byWell By Gretchen ReynoldsPoets and politicians have long known that hearts and minds are linked. Now neuroscientists and cardiologists have shown again, in a study published this month in The European Heart Journal, that the connection is more than metaphorical. It turns out that those afflicted by a rare, serious condition known as “broken-heart syndrome” have brains that work differently from those of healthy people, suggesting that what happens in the head can hurt the heart.The condition, known medically as Takotsubo syndrome, usually follows the experience of extreme stress, such as that felt after the loss of a loved one. It is marked by an abrupt weakening and bulging of the heart, until it begins to resemble a narrow-necked Japanese octopus trap called a takotsubo. (The doctor who first described the syndrome was Japanese.) Researchers have suspected that the disorder — which mostly strikes women and which, while occasionally fatal, tends to resolve over time — is connected to the brain and its control over how the nervous system handles stress. The sympathetic nervous system revs up the body, including the heart, in response to danger; the parasympathetic system calms things back down; and the limbic system generates and controls emotional responses. The regions of the brain that regulate these systems communicate closely with one another in order to keep basic, autonomic processes, like the beating of our hearts, running smoothly.A group of Swiss cardiologists wondered if a disruption in the interplay among these systems could be connected to broken-heart syndrome. They recruited 15 volunteers who had survived Takotsubo syndrome within the past few years and another 39 unaffected subjects; neuroscientists then conducted functional M.R.I. scans of each brain. In the healthy volunteers, the parts of the brain associated with the emotions and the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems lit up synchronously, as expected. But the communication among those areas was relatively slight in the Takotsubo survivors. The dimmed neuronal activity was most notable between the brain regions that control the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems; the physiological calming that should occur after stress was apparently less likely to take place.AdvertisementSupported bynews analysisAre we watching a life partnership fracture on Twitter, a casualty of Donald Trump?By Mark LeibovichMr. Leibovich is the chief national correspondent for The New York Times Magazine.Last Sunday, shortly after Attorney General William Barr had released his no collusion/maybe obstruction summary of Robert Mueller’s report, I spotted George Conway wandering out of the National Zoo, in Northwest Washington. George, as anyone even casually familiar with the wacky spectacles surrounding our 45th president is aware, is the prominent conservative lawyer who has been increasingly open about his contempt for Donald Trump, mostly via Twitter. This is notable because he is also the husband of the White House counselor Kellyanne Conway, making him one-half of the marital embodiment of Trump-era Washington — a seething, divided, bizarre crucible, in other words.George wore a dark polo shirt and appeared to be alone on this warm afternoon. I imagined him to be depressed over Mr. Barr’s synopsis and out for a walk to clear his head while his wife labored triumphantly at the White House. I barely know George. We’ve met a few times and texted occasionally (like many Washington reporters, I’ve tried to interview him about his marriage, to no avail). I decided to leave him alone with his thoughts.He later confirmed (via text) that it was he, but that he was not alone; George said he was shepherding a bunch of kids around the zoo, a task that he compared to herding wild animals. “Or working at the White House,” I replied, trying to egg him on. He didn’t bite, at least on the record.George has complained to friends that Kellyanne has fallen inexplicably under the thrall of President Trump — and that he would prefer a wife who was not captured. Kellyanne, meanwhile, believes that her husband has been disrespectful of her in his public criticisms of her boss, and she wishes he would air his complaints in private. It’s obviously more complicated, but those seem to be the broad contours of their grievances.By all appearances, it had been another belligerent week for the Conways. George had just a few days earlier tweeted out clinical definitions of narcissistic personality disorder and antisocial personality disorder in reference to the president of the United States. He went on to suggest that “a serious inquiry needs to be made about this man’s condition of mind.” His wife, all the while, continued to stand by her man — in this case, the man in the White House.Kellyanne countered that she did not share her husband’s concern for the president’s mental well-being, and then added something sarcastic about how she had been taking care of the couple’s four children that morning and was engaging in real “substantive” conversations with Mr. Trump so (if you’ll excuse her) she might not be fully up to speed on whatever it was her husband was tweeting about that morning.Naturally, the president himself weighed in, dismissing George — “Mr. Kellyanne Conway” — as “a total loser” and the “husband from hell.” This was not your standard strange Washington bedfellow shtick, in other words. It was a far cry from the love prevailing over politics meme and Americans learning to disagree without being disagreeable, and all that.Politics has always loved a good odd-couple story. That the cable combatants James Carville (the Bill Clinton strategist) and Mary Matalin (the Bush and Cheney operative) were married in real life held a certain novelty and quaintness in the relatively tame Beltway soap opera of the 1990s. It could also be marketable. The Carville-Matalin political-enemies/life-partners routine reaped them a fortune of book, speaking, TV and endorsement deals.But the love-over-politics plotline seems to be another casualty of an administration that has torched even the most time-honored of Washington chestnuts. Far from anything uplifting, the ballad of George and Kellyanne has provided a running background mishegoss to the main noise. George will tweet, with increasing disgust, about the president; people (who pay attention to these things) will notice, and the media will cover it, especially when he takes on a matter relating to presidential scandal, including impeachment, which he had experience with as a prime mover against Bill Clinton’s presidency two decades ago.It’s also hard to look away when George seems to implicitly — or explicitly — chastise those who still support and enable Mr. Trump (for example, his wife). Members of Team Kellyanne jump on Twitter to retaliate, on her behalf. Trump’s 2020 campaign manager, Brad Parscale, said George was a bad husband, and Eric Trump called his actions “horrible.” George told The Washington Post that he was compelled to tweet about the White House “so I don’t end up screaming at her,” meaning Kellyanne. All totally normal!At first, it was impossible not to wonder whether the Conways were staging some elaborate marital feud, tailor-made to gin up maximum publicity in the attention vortex that is Donald Trump’s White House. Were they positioning themselves for some kind of post-White House “reconciliation” act? You could imagine the joint memoir or reality show or live stage possibilities.But it is also impossible not to wonder whether their joint memoir is being written in real time, and we are watching a life partnership fracture on Twitter, a casualty of a third wheel in the marriage — Donald Trump.This is the part of the story where we call in the authorities to remind us that (slowly, everyone) no one really knows what goes on in the privacy of a marriage. “Hey, I don’t live in their house,” Mr. Carville cautioned when I reached him by phone in Louisiana, where he and Ms. Matalin have lived for 12 years in apparent harmony (and if not, it would be off-brand, so they would never tweet about it). “They might be the happiest people or the saddest people in the world,” Mr. Carville said of the Conways. “Or maybe somewhere in between, like everyone.”Remember, too, that we are living in what’s becoming an intensely performative culture, with new outlets for different personas — one for home; one for work; one for Instagram, cable, etc. Open friction is no longer so easily subsumed by the almighty virtue of comity. “Everybody seems to be playing a certain role, and that should add another layer of skepticism about what’s really going on with people,” said Gil Troy, a presidential historian at McGill University who has written about political couples.To strike a more neutral note: Maybe the Conways simply embody the Washington power couple we all deserve in the Trump era. “This marriage represents the train wreck that is our current political culture,” Professor Troy said. “We are all intertwined as Americans, like we’re all in a marriage together and constantly colliding against one another. No one knows who’s going to break first and what will be the breaking point.”We are all the Conways. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSAVANNAH, Ga. — A federal judge dismissed a wrongful death lawsuit against a Georgia sheriff sued by the family of a man who died in jail after being strapped into a chair and shocked four times with a Taser.Mathew Ajibade, 21, died in a cell at the Chatham County jail in Savannah hours after he was arrested on Jan. 1, 2015, following a fight with his girlfriend. Attorneys for his family said Ajibade was having a manic episode, after failing to take his medication for bipolar disorder, when he got into a bloody brawl with deputies trying to book him at the jail.Investigators found that Ajibade was carried to a cell and strapped into a restraint chair after the fight. Deputies placed a mask over his face to prevent him from spitting. While Ajibade was restrained, a deputy used a Taser to shock him four times. He was still strapped to the chair when a jailer later found him dead.U.S. District Court Judge R. Stan Baker granted Sheriff John Wilcher's request to be dropped from the lawsuit March 28, ruling no evidence showed the sheriff personally harmed Ajibade or established any policies or practices that ultimately violated the dead man's rights."No one disputes the tragedy of Mathew Ajibade's death and the emotional pain that his family has no doubt endured," the judge said in his ruling. "Sherriff Wilcher cannot be held legally responsible for that tragedy merely due to his supervisory position."In 2016, Ajibade's family filed suit in U.S. District Court against the Chatham County sheriff, the jail's medical care contractor and several deputies.The civil lawsuit accused the sheriff and others who worked under him at the jail for excessive use of force as well as indifference to Ajibade's medical needs. The defendants included two deputies and a jail nurse who were acquitted of manslaughter charges in a 2015 criminal trial.The deputy who used the stun gun on Ajibade, Jason Kenny, was convicted of cruelty to an inmate and was sentenced to a month in jail that he was allowed to serve on weekends. Kenny's fellow jailer, Maxine Evans, was convicted of faking jail records and perjury and received probation, as did jail nurse Gregory Brown, who was found guilty of lying to investigators.An autopsy found no single cause for why Ajibade died. A Georgia Bureau of Investigation medical examiner told jurors during the criminal trial that Ajibade was "stressed to death."Civil claims against Kenny, Evans and Brown are still pending. So are claims against Corizon Health Inc., the jail's former medical services contractor.AdvertisementSupported byTipBy Malia Wollan“Does anger tend to make things in your life better or worse?” Raymond Chip Tafrate, a clinical psychologist who specializes in the treatment of anger, asks. It is not inherently bad, but that’s no excuse to let it boil unchecked. The expression (and suppression) of anger is linked with increased health risks that include stroke, heart disease, pain and immune system problems. To learn new behavior patterns, first understand the existing ones. “Break your anger down into its component parts,” Tafrate says. Examine specific incidents and ask yourself, What was the trigger? What went through your head and body? What did you want to do in that moment? And what did you actually do?“Get off autopilot,” Tafrate says. Learn relaxation and mindfulness techniques, like concentrating on your breathing. Slow down to allow your brain activity to move from the neural systems, like the amygdala, responsible for reactive aggression, and into the frontal regions that regulate threat response. It often helps to practice being triggered with role-playing exercises and something called imaginal exposure homework, where you write an anger scene, record yourself reading it and then repeatedly replay it, practicing new ways of thinking and reacting. It helps to have a social worker or psychologist to guide you.Beware the myth of catharsis: Smashing things won’t help. Despite the popularity of so-called rage rooms, where customers pay to bash televisions with a bat or shatter dishware, research shows that such expressions of anger tend to increase anger. Nor can you rely on pharmacology; in fact, anger is not in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, and Tafrate knows of no clinical drug trials for treating anger akin to diagnosable problems like anxiety and depression.AdvertisementSupported byInternational Herald TribuneBy The International Herald TribuneIt is no secret that the French telegraphic service treated the public with scant courtesy during the war, delivering despatches when and to whom it pleased, but the extent of its abuses as elicited by the committee appointed by the Chamber of Deputies to investigate into State contracts during the war will nevertheless astonish everybody.This investigation — the results of which are published in the “Temps” — shows that the Telegraphic Control Section, of which M. Tannery was the head and Captain Ladoux and M. Pierre Lenoir were active members, was responsible for scandalous abuses.For instance, in the course of the investigation M. Tannery recognized that on an average at the Paris Telegraph Bureau 40,000 despatches were held back daily. The majority of them were never delivered and the others were distributed after great delay. The despatches which were retained were in the main thrown into a basket and when the accumulation had become too great they were destroyed. The Control Section never made any inquiry and neither the senders or those to whom the despatches were addressed were ever informed.It must be admitted that these telegraph authorities were no respecters of persons. Telegrams sent by or to foreign sovereigns, princes, and diplomatists were treated like the despatches of Tom, Dick or Harry. In fact, the close attention and all the patience of the Delegation of Foreign Affairs was needed to prevent the systematic holding up of these State telegrams.The Foreign Affairs Department, in support of a protest, stated that the Telegraphic Control Section, unknown to it, stopped all telegrams for Spain, notably those of Ambassadors in Rome and London. Telegrams also from agents of the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs were stopped, particularly those from M. Bapst, Minister at Copenhagen.And the Control Section was just as ruthless in regard to the country’s financial interests, for, on the occasion of the last national loan, it stopped or suppressed a considerable number of Stock Exchange orders and stopped despatches of funds destined for the loan.And this is not the limit. The claims of the National Defence received no consideration. The report states that orders of Le Creusot and Firminy were stopped as well as those of other factories working for the war. One of the latter was obliged to close down owing to its inability to forward its demands in the needful time.The report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs concludes as follows: “Under its present head, the section of Telegraphic Control is an organ of confusion and disorder, which has engendered extraordinary abuses and risked compromising the Government seriously and hampering its general policy.”As a consequence of these revelations, M. Tannery has been relieved of his functions at the Telegraphic Control. But retaining his post at the Cour des Comptes, he was appointed to the exchange commission by the Minister of Finance and then sent to represent the latter in Alsace and Lorraine. The Premier has removed him from the last position.Captain Ladoux and M. Pierre Lenoir are bring prosecuted on the charge of dealing with the enemy in connection with the purchase of a Paris newspaper, with which Senator Humbert is also the subject of prosecution.AdvertisementSupported bylettersPsychiatrists and the father of a daughter who committed suicide offer insights.To the Editor:Re “Fighting Suicide Is a Collective Task” (column, March 15):I commend David Brooks for shining some light on the rising rates of suicide in the United States, particularly among adolescents. Mr. Brooks is right in advocating an empathic, nonjudgmental approach to a friend or a family member who voices suicidal ideas or plans. But he doesn’t sufficiently emphasize that most people who end their own lives do so in the context of serious psychiatric illness, like major depressive disorder. (Perhaps Mr. Brooks was alluding to this in his use of the phrase “chemical imbalance in the brain,” but this term is outdated and simplistic, as we now view major depression as due to complex biological, psychological and social factors.) And while it is fine to encourage suicidal people to “talk about the pain,” it is usually risky to delay a professional evaluation by recommending, as Mr. Brooks suggests, that they “journal their thoughts.”Finally, kudos to Mr. Brooks for noting the strong association between completed suicide and easy access to guns — another factor that can be addressed in a professional evaluation.Ronald W. Pies Lexington, Mass.The writer is a psychiatrist affiliated with SUNY Upstate Medical University and Tufts University.To the Editor:David Brooks’s column about suicide is well balanced and informative. As the father of a daughter who took her life, I can testify that I missed the signals though I thought that I understood. She left no note (most don’t), and we are left with the greatest mystery of our lives. She was our gift to the world.Walter BlanchardHoustonTo the Editor:It is important for those close to a suicidal person to understand an important phenomenon addressed in David Brooks’s column: ambivalence. We must acknowledge the side that wants to die, but ally ourselves with the side that wants to live. Emphasize that the anguish or pain will not remain the same. Do not be afraid to inquire directly about suicide; it is a myth that asking about suicide puts the thought in someone’s mind. Conversely, the direct question allows the person to talk about his or her pain, and feel heard, seen, understood and less isolated. Nearly 70 percent of those who are intent upon suicide have communicated their intention to another person. That communication requires responses that include seeking clinical evaluation, using safety plans, including recognizing warning signs, encouragement of self-awareness and identification of reasons for living. I believe that everyone has something to live for. It might be a significant other, a pet, a cause, a job or the beauty of nature. We need to help the person identify it, and to remain by his or her side until the pain subsides. Whether a person has weapons in his home or whether he has researched other methods to end his life is critically important to ask and to do something about. The most important thing is to connect emotionally without being judgmental or providing false hope.AdvertisementSupported byEssayBy Marie Myung-Ok LeeI read every night to my teenage son, who has severe autism. Only recently has he been calm enough to tolerate this, but it’s become an enjoyable ritual. I’m not sure what he understands, yet as I read Helen Macdonald’s memoir, “H Is for Hawk,” about a woman’s year of grief and falconry, J gets a dreamy look on his face. On nights he’s worried I’ll forget, he’ll come to me and demand: “Read bird hawk!”As a teacher, book columnist and novelist, I’m something of a professional reader. Casting about for what to read to J next, I’ve noticed a surge of books with autism in them. I don’t mean books about autism, but, rather, novels that include characters who have autism or that use symptoms of the disorder as a metaphor or plot device, or to stylize language.These portrayals drove me to revisit “Illness as Metaphor” (1978), Susan Sontag’s critical look at the “literary transfiguration” of illness. Tuberculosis, a microbial infection characterized by sputum and wracking coughs, became the “romantic disease” of the 19th century, its fevers and pallor standing in for creativity, beauty and moral superiority. Novels of the era were populated with beautiful TB deaths whenever an innocent deserved a peaceful and painless end, perhaps most memorably Little Eva in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”With the virtual eradication of tuberculosis in the 20th century, it receded as a dominant form of illness — in art as in life. Cancer filled the void, but with darker metaphors of shame, external disfigurement, war. Like cancer and like TB before the discovery of the mycobacterium tuberculosis, autism is a condition whose etiology remains largely a mystery.Bruno Bettelheim, in his influential book “The Empty Fortress: Infantile Autism and the Birth of the Self” (1967), famously blamed the disorder on emotionally frigid “refrigerator mothers,” and doctors recommended that children with autism be separated from their mothers and institutionalized.Sontag concluded that the truest way to portray illness was without metaphor, and it might seem that Bettelheim was writing in the metaphor-free space of observational science. But though his publishers touted him as a child psychologist, he had no credentials other than having attended three introductory classes in the field.Vestiges of the “refrigerator mother” metaphor continue in literature. Cormac McCarthy’s postapocalyptic novel “The Road” (2006) takes place in a “cold autistic dark.” The narrator of Jonathan Lethem’s novel “The Fortress of Solitude” (2003) compares himself with his childhood friend Arthur: “It was a form of autism, a failure at social mimicry that had kept me from the adaptations which made Arthur more Brooklyn than me. … I’d had to hide in books, Manhattanize.” The book’s title refers to Superman’s hide-out in the frigid polar wastes of the Arctic, and, intentionally or not, echoes Bettelheim’s empty fortress. Lethem has cited autism as a source of literary inspiration: “It’s evocative for me. I’m enticed by it.”More recently, in Don DeLillo’s “Zero K” (2016), a near-future novel about the attempt of the hyper-rich to attain eternal life, a character named Jeffrey observes a class of special-needs children: “The boy at the end of the table who can’t produce the specific motor movements that would allow him to speak words that others might understand” and “the girl who could not take a step without sensing some predetermined danger,” adding, in a nod to Sontag, “She was not a metaphor.” And yet the end of the novel features a presumably autistic child pressed into metaphoric duty, when the same character, riding a New York City bus at dusk, watches a boy repetitively bouncing in time to “prelinguistic grunts” and “howls.” As the sun’s last rays illuminate the columns of skyscrapers, Jeffrey reflects: “I didn’t need heaven’s light. I had the boy’s cries of wonder.”Thus autism becomes a metaphor for higher human understanding, a transcendent plane beyond language. In DeLillo’s novel “The Body Artist” (2001), an odd character appears inside the rented house of the female body artist of the book’s title. His language is limited to nonsensical word groupings and repeating what is said to him — an echolalia that is a hallmark of autism. Unable to discern even his name, the body artist calls him “Mr. Tuttle,” after a bumbling teacher from her childhood. Readers often infer that Mr. Tuttle is a ghost, a figment of the body artist’s imagination. But DeLillo told one critic that he intended the character to be real: “a kind of dead end — or one step beyond all human striving toward expressibility. What do we express, finally, at the end of it all? A kind of muteness, perhaps.”That autism explodes the conventional American nuclear family narrative makes it irresistible as a metaphor for the stresses of life under late-stage capitalism. In Helen Schulman’s “A Day at the Beach” (2007), a wealthy Manhattan couple navigate the worst day of their lives: the 9/11 disaster, which causes them to flee their swank downtown home (to the Hamptons) and strains their marriage — already at the breaking point owing to a son who shows clear signs of autism. In Gary Shteyngart’s “Lake Success” (2018), a son’s autism diagnosis similarly destroys an elite Manhattan family’s dreams. The high-living protagonist leaves the scene of an altercation with his wife and nanny over his son and heads straight to the Greyhound station to start a picaresque journey to the other end of the country — a journey in search of an old girlfriend and, one surmises, an autism-less American dream.Like TB and cancer before it, autism can accumulate moral weight. In Louise Erdrich’s “Four Souls” (2004), a white settler who has despoiled the Minnesota pine forests and cheated its Ojibwe inhabitants subsequently endures the immolation of his business empire as well as the birth of a son with “vacant” eyes, “the very picture of idiocy,” who makes “hideous” sounds and cannot be “soothed out of his gross repetition.” Here is the transfiguration of a neurobiological disease into one that lays waste to the mind, taking along with it all the qualities that make us human. In “Lake Success,” the protagonist eventually returns home to his son, and — just as Little Eva’s beautiful tubercular fade in “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” spurs her father to promise to free his slaves — in Shteyngart’s novel, autism becomes a vehicle for the father’s spiritual growth.I ask myself why using autism the way these books do feels wrong. As a child who was disappointed to find the only Asian characters in any book in the library to be the Japanese-American family in “Farewell to Manzanar,” I am acutely aware of the importance of feeling represented in literature. And yet, when it comes to autism appearing in literary fiction, I instinctively feel a need to protect my son from these portrayals. He’s not an Ojibwe curse, a savant or an alien. Nor is he an emotionless cipher with no inner life.As a writer, I understand the absurdity of trying to place restrictions on what can and can’t be written about. Keats defined negative capability as an artist’s ability to transmute an experience or idea into art even if she hasn’t experienced it herself; without it, we’d have no historical fiction, no “Madame Bovary,” no “Martian Chronicles.”The crux of the issue is that with autism there is often, not metaphorically but literally, a lack of voice, which renders the person a tabula rasa on which a writer can inscribe and project almost anything: Autism is a gift, a curse, super intelligence, mental retardation, mystical, repellent, morally edifying, a parent’s worst nightmare. As a writer, I say go ahead and write what you want. As a parent, I find this terrifying, given the way neurotypical people project false motives and feelings onto the actions of others every day.With this divided consciousness, I am endlessly appreciative of “The Reason I Jump” (2013), a book by Naoki Higashida, a Japanese man with autism who is nonverbal and beset by behaviors that would, by conventional standards, cause him to be labeled, like my son, “low-functioning.”Higashida’s mother created a special alphabet grid that eventually allowed her son to communicate by pointing. While still a teenager, he wrote “The Reason I Jump,” describing what it feels like to have autism.The book made its way to the English-speaking world after being discovered and translated from the Japanese by the novelist David Mitchell and his wife, KA Yoshida, who have a son with autism. Mitchell wrote that “‘The Reason I Jump’ consolidated my wife’s and my suspicions that, in fact, people with autism feel what everyone else does. They just cannot show they feel it.” This book is a single author’s perspective, not a textbook, but I’m grateful for Higashida’s hard-won voice: “You can’t judge a person by their looks. But once you know the other person’s inner self, both of you can be that much closer. From your point of view, the world of autism must look like a deeply mysterious place. So please, spare a little time to listen to what I have to say.”My son, J, has a beautiful, warm smile. He also screams and barks for no particular reason I can discern. He laughs loudly at “inappropriate” times. He repetitively jumps up and down and calls it “dancing.” He has hit and bit me and my husband, and hit himself as well. His disordered language is a neurological effect, not a tendency toward gnomic utterances. The dysfunction of the mirror neurons in his brain does not render him a Lethemesque “failure at social mimicry.” The noise and stress of ordinary conversation can cause him to shut down, yet I would never say that he is cold or lacks emotions or prefers to stay inside himself.I don’t know what J is thinking, but I know that he is thinking. Sontag wrote movingly of the anguish experienced by cancer patients in a culture where a harrowing disease is also associated with shame. Now that my son appears to enjoy it when I read to him, I hope to introduce him to a wide variety of books, being mindful to avoid those that reduce his experience — and, by extension, him — to a literary construct.Marie Myung-Ok Lee teaches fiction writing at Columbia. Her next novel, “The Evening Hero,” will be published in 2020.AdvertisementSupported byRites of passageAs I struggle with chronic pain, cozy for me is less hygge and more my ex-boyfriend’s mother, nurses with juice and weird, sandy doughnuts.By Lena DunhamCozy is my religion. There are few things in life I take as seriously as the cultivation and preservation of comfort. My mother says it’s because I’m a Taurus (“they love luxury!”). My father calls it being a bed creature. My friend Jemima spits, “You very rarely do anything that could possibly make you uncomfortable,” as I cancel yet another evening plan. But all of these appraisals miss out on something, on the essential (gooey) core of the whole issue: I am cozy because I have to be. I am cozy to survive.I became obsessed with coziness as a child. Legend has it that I tucked gummy bears into tissue beds behind our clanking old radiator on Broadway as I myself hid away with books about orphans in dire need. But I never used the word “cozy” (unless it was to ask the way to the Kozy Shack rice pudding) until I met my ex-boyfriend’s mother. Shira is a dream: a dictionary-definition Jewish mom with a twist, which is that she has a filthy sense of humor and is a complete and total weirdo. Long and lean like Olive Oyl, she loves rescue dogs and talking to her seatmates on planes, and she loves, beyond all things holy, to be cozy. “This is cozy,” she will proclaim about a bad burrito we are all splitting at a rest stop, divvied up with a plastic knife. “Oh, cozy!” she says when we tell her we both got the flu on our four-year anniversary, and she’s not even being sarcastic. She understands, in some powerful way, that coziness has very little to do with your cashmere and your candle and everything to do with the sense of community that we derive from the shared pursuit of staying safe. Shira lost her youngest child after a long illness. She isn’t an amateur here. Shira’s definition of cozy is similar to the one Isabel Gillies outlines in her new book, “Cozy,” which I guess is similar to mine, and could roughly be stated as: “How do I have to frame this in order to keep going?” When our shared book agent, Bill Clegg, sent me the book, it was with a note that said: “for the empress of cozy, who will understand.” I was amazed to find that she had managed to define what I thought was not definable: “If we know how to create cozy using what’s inside us, we can search for it on the outside no matter where we are, and each day stack the odds in our favor for happiness and, on some days, survival.” Whoa.A year after I met Shira and the word “cozy” entered my lexicon, I got sick. It was nominally endometriosis, a disease in which the uterine lining grows in other places in the body. With every surgery I seemed to get sicker. If I really thought about it, which I didn’t want to, I had been sick since I was a child (seizure, migraines, full body rashes) and I had resisted, with all my might, things like the park, the beach and the bouncy castle. While my hesitation to play with others isn’t likely a symptom of anything but a bad attitude, a specialist told me I had been living with Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, of the hypermobile variety, a genetic disorder that can lead to widespread physical pain. Mixed connective tissue disease, mast cell activation disorder and Lyme disease were also thrown around.Now, in adulthood, my body hurt too much for the theater or the hip restaurant with wooden benches or even, sometimes, the embrace of someone I loved. I could no longer define myself by what I liked to do for fun because the answer, it seemed, was nothing.So I had to reach for a definition of cozy that didn’t involve chenille socks or a big scratchy couch pillow or even my body at all. It had to involve making some kind of peace with where I found myself (often the hospital) and how I felt (like an abandoned lump of steak tartare!) and what I couldn’t do (a lot of things the world had to offer). And Shira was there, washing my hair as I cowered on a plastic shower stool. And Bill was there with a book of W.S. Merwin poems and a gluten-free doughnut whose sandy texture somehow made it even more pleasurable. And the nurses were there with their loose, skilled bodies and their bedazzled badges and their stories about their kids and their dogs and their no-good piece-of-work exes and they helped me into mesh underwear and brought me plastic cups of juice at 4 a.m. They seemed happy to do it and happy to talk, happier still to listen, and it was all, in its terrible way, cozy. My breakup was cozy because I retreated even further. Shira is cozy because she used to belong to me and now I get to borrow her. My parents are cozy because no matter how angry they get, they aren’t going anywhere.For those of us who live in chronic pain, basic definitions of cozy aren’t available. We can’t get hygge when our hips sting and our ankles give. We aren’t healed by exfoliating gloves or fireplaces. Our ability to enjoy the cozy patter of a routine is not a given, since waking up is also an assessment: Who am I today? What am I good for? (The same could be said of the depressed, the anxious, the financially unstable, the addicted or the lonely.) And don’t even get me started on the lack of coziness the internet has brought: near constant, heart-stopping updates. Cruelty disguised as “just saying it like it is.” Compare and despair and compare and despair. That’s where the Gillies definition of cozy becomes so wildly useful. She suggests that, in a moment of crisis, you home in on something to admire: She likes how good emergency responders are at their jobs. Their expertise is cozy to her. I would choose smoke dissipating in the sky. My body is currently in an upswing, though that’s not something I lean on, and now sometimes I take it for a walk or park it at the movies or sit across from a friend and we gesticulate wildly drinking cappuccinos. I get my hair blown out by kindly strangers and I go on first dates, apologizing for ordering a Diet Coke (“I know aspartame is garbage!”). That is all exhilarating. It’s terrifying. It isn’t, exactly, cozy. But I’ve learned that, like its cousin happiness, cozy is defined by contrast. I have to push in order to retreat. I have to lose in order to gain. I have to dreamily walk out into traffic sometimes and hear the angry chorus of horns to remember I am in the world, that this is not a given and I am someone worth saving.Lena Dunham is a writer, director and actor from New York City.AdvertisementSupported byThe CycleRecommending that pregnant women not drink alcohol has been called old-fashioned and even patriarchal. So, as a feminist, my opinion may come as a surprise.By Jen GunterPregnant women are given a long list of medical recommendations that can come across as patriarchal don’ts: Don’t eat raw fish. Don’t consume deli meats. Don’t do hot yoga! Don’t drink.There’s scientific evidence that these activities can have negative impacts on the health of the fetus, but the one that seems to be the source of most debate is alcohol. After all, the French do it, don’t they?And many people born in the 1960s or earlier had mothers who drank. And we’re fine, right?My mother had a fairly regular glass of rye and ginger ale when she was pregnant with me. And she smoked. And I graduated from medical school at the age of 23. So my opinion, especially as someone who believes strongly in a woman’s right to make decisions about her own body, may come as a surprise: It’s medically best not to drink alcohol in pregnancy. Not even a little. The source of that viewpoint? My training and practice as an OB/GYN.Some attribute this abstinence approach to the patriarchy: Clearly we doctors know that moderate alcohol is safe (we don’t!), and we just don’t trust women with that knowledge. According to this theory, we think a woman who hears that an occasional drink is O.K. will blithely go on a bender. (We don’t think that.)Some also say that, in an effort to avoid frivolous lawsuits, doctors advise against alcohol while using a nudge-nudge-wink-wink to insinuate that a glass or two is fine.But this isn’t about sexism (not this time) or dodging litigation. This is about facts. How women use those facts is, of course, their choice.The truth is that fetal alcohol syndrome is far more common than people think, and we have no ability to say accurately what level of alcohol consumption is risk free.There have been many twists and turns in how we, medically and societally, view drinking while pregnant. There was a time when doctors recommended alcohol to pregnant women for relaxation and pain relief, or even prescribed it intravenously as a tocolytic — meaning it stopped premature labor. One doctor who trained me spoke of a 1960s prenatal ward full of intoxicated women “swearing like sailors.”Things began to change in 1973, when fetal alcohol syndrome, or F.A.S., was formally recognized after a seminal article was published in The Lancet, a medical journal. F.A.S. is a constellation of findings that includes changes in growth, distinctive facial features and a negative impact on the developing brain. We now know that alcohol is a teratogen, meaning it can cause birth defects.With that knowledge, the pendulum swung hard. In 1988, Congress passed the Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act, which would add the well-known “women should not drink alcoholic beverages during pregnancy because of the risk of birth defects” label to alcoholic beverages for sale or distribution in the United States. (A warning about drinking and driving was also added.) Many people unfortunately took this as an opportunity to police pregnant women in public.Then, over the last 10 years, women have become more vocal — and rightly so — about patriarchal messaging in medicine. Was no-drinking-while-pregnant just one more way to speak down to us and control our bodies? No. But I can understand the confusion.Part of the issue is that the science on alcohol and pregnancy is tricky: Giving pregnant women alcohol for medical testing is not likely to be accepted by ethics committees.And what about all those pregnant Frenchwomen who drink (while also apparently shedding their baby weight with ease and bringing up perfect bébés)? It turns out they aren’t, really. One study in Europe that surveyed pregnant women and new mothers during two months showed that only 11.5 percent of women reported consuming alcohol once they knew they were pregnant. Of these women, most (72 percent) had a single five-ounce glass of wine or less the entire pregnancy. Sign up here to receive Wait —, a weekly newsletter in which Caity Weaver investigates a question in the news and pop culture.We now have new data in the United States telling us that rates of fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (F.A.S.D.) are higher than we knew. In 2018, a paper on F.A.S.D. was published in the medical journal JAMA. Researchers trained in identifying the distinctive physical characteristics of F.A.S.D. evaluated over 3,000 children in four communities across the United States. The findings were staggering. The way we are consuming alcohol in pregnancy is resulting in a conservative estimate of 1.1 to 5 percent of children — up to 1 in 20 — with F.A.S.D. According to the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, fetal alcohol spectrum disorders are more prevalent than autism. And yet at least 10 percent of pregnant women still drink during pregnancy.The best analogy for the risk associated with alcohol consumption in pregnancy is driving with your newborn unbuckled in the back seat. Maybe you’ll get into a car accident and maybe you won’t. And if you do, maybe it will be a fender bender or maybe it will be catastrophic.Driving is also not the only factor at play, in the same way that differences in body chemistry can play a role in who develops F.A.S.D. There is also the ability of your newborn to withstand an impact, the weather, the number of cars and the state of mind of other drivers on the road.While the chances of getting in a car accident while driving home from the hospital with your newborn are very small, most parents will recall how much they stressed over installing the car seat correctly. (I released a lot of pent-up rage in the hour it took me to get the car seats buckled the first time.)And yet, even with such limited risk, I doubt a single pediatrician would say: “Sure, drive unbuckled just this once. It’s a celebration.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Jason BaileyWith “Glass,” which debuted in theaters this weekend, the writer and director M. Night Shyamalan is attempting a tricky feat: a double-sequel, which continues the stories of both his 2000 comic-book drama, “Unbreakable,” and his 2017 psychological thriller, “Split.”Franchise fusion is usually an indication of desperation — see “Alien vs. Predator” or “Freddy vs. Jason” — but Shyamalan’s decision to connect these divergent films was admirably ambitious — and a clever way to finally craft a follow-up to “Unbreakable,” which that film’s muted initial reception seemed to preclude. (Shyamalan has said that Kevin Wendell Crumb, the main character in “Split,” was first conceived as a character in “Unbreakable.”)[Read our interview with M. Night Shyamalan about “Glass” and the “Unbreakable” universe.]“Glass” is steeped in the world Shyamalan created in those films (also known as Philadelphia, but with superheroes and supervillains), and it assumes familiarity with their characters and events. If you haven’t seen “Unbreakable” or “Split,” or it’s been a while, here’s what you need to know before seeing “Glass.”David DunnWe first meet David Dunn (Bruce Willis) on a passenger train from New York to his hometown, Philadelphia; that train derails en route, killing every passenger except David, who not only survives, but also emerges with nary a scratch. In time, we discover he has never broken a bone, never had a serious illness and never even succumbed to a common cold.Elijah PriceElijah Price (Samuel L. Jackson), the wheelchair-using owner of a comic-book art gallery, is an expert on the history and archetypes of the form. He offers an explanation for David’s run of extraordinarily good health: David is a Superman-style hero, blessed with special powers of strength and vision (when he touches strangers, he can see their darkest secrets). And when David recalls how he nearly drowned as a boy, Elijah determines that water is his weakness — his Kryptonite, as it were. Elijah’s knowledge of comics grew out of his own history: From birth, he has struggled with a rare disorder than renders his bones especially brittle and easy to break. When he was a child, his classmates called him “Mr. Glass.”[Read the Times review of “Glass” by Manohla Dargis.]David’s FamilyWhen we meet David, his marriage to Audrey (Robin Wright) is all but over, and his relationship with his son, Joseph (Spencer Treat Clark), is clearly remote. His brush with death causes the couple to give their union a fresh start, while the discovery of David’s newfound gifts helps him forge a new bond with Joseph. When David finally accepts Elijah’s explanation of his fate and saves two children from a twisted home invader (while wearing the green poncho of his day job as a security guard — effectively his superhero costume), David insists that his secret identity stay between him and his son.The TwistOnce David’s course is set, he shakes hands with Elijah and finds out the terrible truth: the art dealer is, in fact, a supervillain who caused the train derailment (and several other horrible “accidents” before it) in order to flush out his superhero nemesis. According to the closing titles, “Elijah Price is now in an institute for the criminally insane,” and that’s where we find him in “Glass.”Kevin Wendell CrumbJames McAvoy stars as Crumb, a deeply disturbed young man with Dissociative Identity Disorder. He has 23 distinct personalities fighting for control of his mind and body. “The Beast,” a more dangerous 24th, is on its way.The HordeThese alter egos (or “alters”) are referred to, in both “Split” and “Glass,” as the Horde. They include Barry, a fashion-loving good guy who prides himself on being the Horde’s functional, public face; Dennis, the tough, obsessive Alpha male who has “taken charge” of the personalities alongside Patricia, a stern, matronly type, and Hedwig, a nine-year-old boy who says “et cetera” a lot; and the Beast, who seems to comprise the various animals at the zoo where he works (and where he keeps his victims, in an underground maze of abandoned cages and tunnels).The LightKevin’s “alters” frequently reference stepping into “the light,” a shorthand phrase describing when a personality has taken control of his body and mind. In “Glass,” his captors use a large bank of strobe lights to force a switch in whatever personality is dominant.Casey CookeThe central action of “Split” has Kevin (as Dennis) kidnapping Casey Cooke (Anya Taylor-Joy) and two of her classmates after a birthday party and confining them under the zoo, where they await their sacrifice to the Beast. She ultimately outsmarts the Horde (she discovers she can disarm and confuse them by calling Kevin by his full name) and escapes. And so does Kevin, who (as Patricia) says of the Beast: “Look at what he can do. Let him show the world how powerful we can be.”The ConnectionThe link between these two films was initially kept quiet: a surprise final scene in which patrons at a local diner connect the Horde to “that crazy guy in the wheelchair that they put away 15 years ago.” He also had “a funny name,” one of them remarks. David is carefully revealed, sitting next to them, and he provides the two word reminder: “Mr. Glass.”AdvertisementSupported byRight at HomeSure, you can embrace Marie Kondo. But how long before the clutter inevitably creeps back?By Ronda KaysenIt was a Tuesday night, a work night, a school night, that kind of night, and my husband was dutifully folding an undershirt into a neat origami square. “Does this look right?” he asked, holding up the painfully pretty white bundle as soothing music from a YouTube demonstration video filled the room.I nodded. I couldn’t do much more than that, because I was confronted with all the socks that I own, sitting in a hill on my bed, waiting for me to sort them. How could I possibly own so many socks when it always seems like I’m almost out of socks?As you’ve probably gathered, my husband and I have been binge watching the Netflix series “Tidying Up with Marie Kondo,” in which the Japanese organizing guru cheerfully helps families bring order to their woefully cluttered homes. If you are one of the few people who have missed this frenzy (where have you been all winter?), Ms. Kondo is the author of the best-selling book “The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up,” whose KonMari housekeeping philosophy comes down to a simple axiom: If an item sparks joy, keep it. If not, thank it for its service and let it go.Viewers watch as families spend exhausting weeks sorting through every item in their homes, facing down the sheer volume of their belongings and the marital strife all that stuff often causes. The end results are modest (in some episodes, it’s not clear that the participants parted with much at all.) Yet the goal is surprisingly ambitious: Give every item a place to call home and you can organize the junk drawer out of existence.Could you even imagine? Open any drawer, like this one at my desk where I am currently seated, and you are likely to find a motley assortment of objects. In this case: lip balm, a hair band, nine pens, three sample bottles of random lotions, a pair of old eyeglasses and some cables that don’t appear to belong to anything in particular. Oh, and a molded imprint of my infant daughter’s foot, which would be really sweet except that she’s now 8. So why is it still in the drawer?As much as I am mesmerized by the prospect of a tidy life and a rightful place for that foot imprint, I can’t shake the feeling that even if I wrangle order out of this drawer, or my sock drawer, or all the drawers in my home, the space will refill again. Maybe not in a week, but soon enough the clutter will creep back in and chaos will return.Anyone who’s moved from a small apartment to a larger one, or better yet, from an apartment to a house, has experienced that feeling of expansive space. So many closets! So much room to spread out! And yet, somewhere in the recesses of your mind, you know that eventually every nook and cranny will be filled. The stuff will come from somewhere — gifts, impulse purchases, office freebies — and take up residence in those empty drawers.But why?“Acquiring things actually feels good,” said Travis L. Osborne, a psychologist who treats hoarding and obsessive-compulsive disorder and is the director of the Anxiety Center at the Evidence Based Treatment Centers of Seattle. “You get a little dopamine burst in your brain when you go shopping, so that behavior is reinforcing, you want to do more of it.” Because we accumulate objects in dribs and drabs over time without really paying much attention, “we can just sort of fill up space,” he said. For some people — roughly 2.5 percent to 5 percent of the American population — the need to hold onto stuff rises to the level of hoarding, a diagnosable mental disorder. The rest of us fall somewhere along a continuum from purgers to savers, wondering what should stay and what should go. “The challenges and the thoughts that people struggle with about hoarding aren’t really different than the thoughts that the rest of us struggle with,” Dr. Osborne said.We may not be a nation of hoarders, but we certainly like to collect. Even the act of clearing out can send us back to the store in search of bins, baskets and boxes to hold our freshly tidied items. What better way to celebrate an organized sock drawer than with a handy set of dividers to keep the sweat socks from pestering the dress socks? Once you make it to the Container Store, you might as well pick up a few mesh baskets for the home office and some nice wicker ones for the living room.Rampant consumerism certainly plays a role in clutter, but it is not the only culprit. It’s also about the mold of my daughter’s footprint. Short of framing and hanging it (which is probably what I originally intended, but, well, who has time for that?) it’s not the sort of item that has a natural home. Without an alternative plan for where to put it, it ends up floating around the back of a drawer with all the other homeless objects. At best, it ends up in a clear plastic bin, tucked away in the attic until my daughter grows up and I can give her the entire bin of childhood memorabilia so she can figure out what to do with it.And so emerges the problem with organizing on a whim. That enormous discard pile is satisfying, but without a strategy for all the stuff that has yet to even enter your home, you’ll just be doing this again next winter. “We fail because we don’t approach organizing in a conscious way,” said Regina Leeds, a home organizer in Los Angeles and the author of “One Year to an Organized Life.”Instead, we should approach the overall task methodically and thoughtfully, and not just in arbitrary bursts. Ms. Leeds makes master lists for her clients with categories and subcategories of possessions, a daunting task. “Categories make you powerful. They tell you what you have, what you don’t have, and what you need,” she said. “They can spark creativity.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressLower sales overseas and higher costs for research and litigation pushed Johnson & Johnson's first-quarter profit down 14%, but the health care giant beat profit and revenue expectations, pushing up its shares.The maker of Tylenol and psoriasis drug Stelara on Tuesday said unfavorable currency exchange rates reduced revenue by nearly 4%, leaving total sales flat at $20.03 billion, though that edged out analysts' muted projections.Sales of prescription medicines were the bright spot as usual, rising 4% and now accounting for over half of the New Brunswick, New Jersey, company's total revenue.The segment just got a boost from two U.S. Food and Drug Administration approvals, in March for nasal spray treatment Spravato for treatment-resistant depression and last week for bladder cancer drug Balversa."The good far outweighs any possible questions or concerns investors could have," particularly since total drug sales increased despite cheaper competition to key drugs, Danielle Antalffy of SVB Leerink wrote to investors. "These quarterly results should increase investor confidence."Longtime top seller Remicade, for rheumatoid arthritis and other immune disorders, posted a 21% sales drop, to $1.1 billion. Zytiga, which had been J&J's third-highest seller, saw sales fall 20% from a year ago, to $679 million.Earlier this month, J&J completed a key acquisition, paying $3.4 billion for Auris Health, which makes robotic technology used in lung treatments and diagnostic procedures. Johnson & Johnson said the deal will expand its digital surgery portfolio across multiple surgical specialties. J&J also struck a partnership with MeiraGTx to develop gene therapies for eye diseases.The world's biggest maker of health care products posted net income of $3.75 billion, or $1.39 per share, down from $4.37 billion, or $1.60 per share, a year earlier.Adjusted for research and development expenses and costs from ongoing litigation over its baby powder allegedly causing cancer in some people, earnings were $2.10 per share, 7 cents better than Wall Street expected, according to a survey by Zacks Investment Research.Revenue was $20.02 billion, with $10.24 billion of that coming from prescription drugs. Sales were led by Stelara, up 32.4% to $1.41 billion. Higher sales of cancer drugs Imbruvica and Darzalex, HIV drug Prezista and schizophrenia treatment Invega Sustenna also lifted the results, and J&J noted that a new study of diabetes drug Invokana showed it delayed the need for kidney dialysis. That should boost future sales.Addressing the public furor over soaring prices for brand-name medicines, Chief Financial Officer Joseph Wolk told analysts on a conference call that J&J's higher sales continue to be driven by greater use of its products, not price increases.Sales of consumer health products dipped 2.4% to $3.32 billion. Edward Jones analyst Ashtyn Evans wrote to investors that the 14% decline in sales of baby products is disappointing, "given the company just launched multiple new products to better compete with private labels."Medical device sales fell 4.6% to $6.46 billion. J&J noted it recently launched new AcuVue Oasis contact lenses that darken in bright sunlight, an industry first.The company reaffirmed its January forecast for 2019 sales totaling $80.4 billion to $81.2 billion, but raised the low end of its earnings-per-share forecast 3 cents, giving a new range of $8.53 to $8.63.AdvertisementSupported byBy Brad WolvertonThe email set off alarms at Ithaca College.“I’m literally fighting for my life but staying safe,” 22-year-old Christopher Biehn emailed a professor in late September. “I won’t be in class today (or perhaps for a bit) & just pray I won’t be hospitalized long-term.”As Mr. Biehn prepared to check into a psychiatric ward four hours from campus, a crisis team from the private liberal arts college in central New York swung into action. Shortly after Mr. Biehn wrote to his professor, a campus safety officer went to his apartment to make sure he was O.K. A social worker from the college reached out to discuss academic options as he worked to manage his bipolar disorder.Two weeks later, after returning to his home in Medford, N.J., for treatment, he applied for a medical leave of absence from the college — his sixth leave in four years.In extensive interviews, Mr. Biehn recounted his experiences. He has also written about them in a blog and in Ithaca College’s student paper. He started a grass-roots social media campaign to promote acceptance for mood disorders, inspired to share his story in hopes of helping others.His journey illustrates the intense struggles students can face and the increasing steps colleges are taking to manage what some experts are calling a mental health crisis on campus. (Ithaca officials said they could not discuss a student’s health records, citing federal privacy laws.)Students and institutions are grappling with issues like the surge in school shootings and trauma from suicides and sexual assault. But it’s not just the crises that have shaken this generation — it’s the grinding, everyday stresses, from social media pressures to relationship problems to increased academic expectations.More than 60 percent of college students said they had experienced “overwhelming anxiety” in the past year, according to a 2018 report from the American College Health Association. Over 40 percent said they felt so depressed they had difficulty functioning.Money problems are exacerbating their worries. Mental health professionals say college students have experienced financial burdens on a different scale than many of their predecessors. They grew up during the Great Recession and have seen family members lose jobs and homes. They have great uncertainty about their career prospects and feel pressure to excel academically or risk losing job opportunities.“There’s a much more radical feeling that you’re either a winner or a loser,” said Victor Schwartz, a psychiatrist and medical director of the Jed Foundation, which helps colleges improve their mental health programming. “That’s put tremendous pressure on college students and is feeding a lot of the anxiety we’re seeing.”As students have encountered more mental health problems, they have sought help in record numbers. Between the fall of 2009 and spring of 2015, the number of students who visited campus counseling centers increased by more than 30 percent, while college enrollment climbed just 5 percent, according to a 2015 report by the Center for Collegiate Mental Health.People of all ages, but young adults in particular, are increasingly comfortable sharing intimate details of their mental health conditions, right down to their dose of antidepressant. Many expect their colleges to help them cope.“You want a college that treats you for the person you are and gives you the help you deserve,” said Katia Seitz, a 19-year-old high school senior from Houston, who has received treatment for an eating disorder. “You don’t want a college that shuts you off or feels like it’s not their responsibility to take care of you.”Several admissions officials say they have seen a rise in inquiries regarding counseling and mental health services and accommodations from parents and prospective students.Colleges have helped drive demand for mental health services, pouring money into education and training to help students identify problems and learn where to turn for help. But critics say many colleges have not adequately prepared for the increasing demand, leaving some students frustrated.Nationwide, students typically have to wait almost seven business days for their first appointment with a college counselor, according to a 2017 report from the Association for University and College Counseling Center Directors. But at some colleges, it can be more than two months.Three years ago, the counseling center at Queens College had 60 students on its waiting list (it does not require anyone experiencing a crisis to wait). Like many institutions, it began restricting the number of times students could see a counselor, from unlimited visits to 12. At the start of this semester, its waiting list was down to 30 students. But wait times can grow during peak periods.“As we approach midterms, it feels like we’re running a crisis clinic rather than a counseling center,” said Barbara Moore, director of counseling, health and wellness. She would like to add more counselors, but doesn’t have the space.Many colleges, however, are increasing their ranks. At least 155 counseling centers added new clinical positions from July 1, 2016, to June 30, 2017, according to the report by the association for counseling center directors.Studies show that hiring additional therapists can help keep students healthy and enrolled, which can be a good return on investment for an institution.“If your tuition is $50,000 a year and your counseling budget is $1 million, your counseling center doesn’t have to retain that many students to make up that cost,” said Greg Eells, director of counseling and psychological services at Cornell University.A recent independent review of Ithaca College’s student health and psychological services center, which found gaps in senior leadership and access to care, prompted the college to create a senior-level position responsible for student wellness and to make other improvements. Since 2017, the college has added two positions to both its counseling and case-management staffs.[Read more about what some schools have done to address students’ mental health.]The 2007 mass shooting at Virginia Tech, which prompted universities to change how they deal with mental health issues, led many institutions to hire case managers, or “ICare” teams, like Ithaca’s, whose jobs include helping students in distress. Just 25 people attended the inaugural meeting of the Higher Education Case Managers Association, in 2008, the group said. By the end of this year, the association expects to have more than 900 members.And although colleges have increased the size of their counseling staffs, many campuses are still straining to keep up, forcing some institutions to rethink their treatment strategies.Daniel Eisenberg, a University of Michigan professor, said many colleges were also intrigued with the idea of online treatment, but were skeptical of its merits.“One of the best parts of campuses is that we have this in-person community where we can support students, so why start doing things online? It’s a debate or question that’s hanging over higher education,” said Dr. Eisenberg, who is helping to lead a large study to better understand the effectiveness of online treatment.Traumatic incidents have helped other institutions revamp their intake processes. A 2010 shooting at the University of Texas led its counseling center to develop a crisis-response system now used to assess all students seeking mental health treatment. The university’s “brief assessment and referral team,” or B.A.R.T., aims to identify students’ problems quickly and direct them to the right service.U.T. refers many students to one of the 30 to 40 counseling groups it administers each semester. Among other things, the groups have helped survivors of sexual assault and students exploring different identities. The forums show students they are not alone, which can be a powerful message. They also help reduce the load on university counselors.“We would love to provide all the resources to all the students,” said Christopher Brownson, associate vice president for student affairs and director of the university’s counseling and mental health center. “But the answer to all social and emotional problems in the world cannot be to go see your therapist.”Other institutions have found success with modified counseling sessions. Penn State University has set up a half-dozen drop-in clinics at places like residence halls and student unions where students can consult with a licensed therapist without having to make an appointment.“You drop in, get your answer and go on your way,” said Ben Locke, senior director for counseling and psychological services. “It fundamentally changes the interaction.”Dozens of universities have placed therapists around their campuses, making it easier for students to find help in a convenient location. The University of Michigan has 12 “embedded” counselors, including psychologists and social workers, in its schools of engineering, dentistry and pharmacy. Other schools have placed full-time counselors in the athletic department, where they help players recover from head injuries or overcome mental performance blocks.The University of South Florida has gathered data on the students who seek mental health counseling at its main campus, in Tampa. It has found that about a quarter of them don’t need a therapist. They often just need better time-management or anxiety-reducing skills, said Rita DeBate, associate vice president for health and wellness.To help address those issues, the university created “relaxation stations” that include massage chairs, bean bags and nap pods — chairs that cost more than $10,000 each and have quickly become the most sought-after seats on campus.“We’d love it if we had a lazy river,” Dr. DeBate says, referring to the ultimate student amenity. But once students sink into one of those chairs, letting the white noise settle over them, it’s almost as nice, she says.Mr. Biehn, the Ithaca College student, has not found many relaxing moments since applying for his sixth medical leave last fall. The former high school class president, who was on a full academic scholarship at Ithaca, has tried dozens of medicines, but nothing seems to work. He hopes to finish his degree someday, but he has no plans to return to the college.Late last month, after sounding hopeful on a phone call with a reporter, he slipped into a dark place, returning to the psychiatric ward for another week. At his lowest moments, he said, he lies in bed, feeling numb.“I’m basically dead to the world,” he said, “even though there’s just enough breathing going on to call me alive.”AdvertisementSupported bySuccess against sickle-cell would be “the first genetic cure of a common genetic disease” and could free tens of thousands of Americans from agonizing pain.By Gina KolataScientists have long known what causes sickle-cell disease and its devastating effects: a single mutation in one errant gene. But for decades, there has been only modest progress against an inherited condition that mainly afflicts people of African descent. With advances in gene therapy, that is quickly changing — so much so that scientists have begun to talk of a cure. In a half-dozen clinical trials planned or underway, researchers are testing strategies for correcting the problem at the genetic level. Already a handful of the enrolled patients, who have endured an illness that causes excruciating bouts of pain, strokes and early death, no longer show signs of the disease.Among them is Brandon Williams, 21, who lives with his mother in Chicago. Because of his sickle-cell disease, he had suffered four strokes by age 18. The damage makes it hard for him to speak. His older sister died of the disease.Following an experimental gene therapy, his symptoms have vanished. Life has taken a sharp turn for the better: no more transfusions, no more pain, no more fear.“He said, ‘Mom, I think I want to get me a job,’” said his mother, Leuteresa Roberts.It is still early in the course of these experimental treatments, and it is likely to be at least three years before one is approved. Although researchers hope the effects will last, they cannot be certain.“We are in uncharted territory,” said Dr. David A. Williams, chief scientific officer at Boston Children’s Hospital. At the moment, the only remedy for sickle-cell disease is a dangerous and expensive bone marrow transplant, an option rarely used. An effective gene therapy would not be simple or inexpensive, but it could change the lives of tens of thousands of people.“This would be the first genetic cure of a common genetic disease,” said Dr. Edward Benz, professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School. It also would mark a turning point for a large community of underserved patients. Most of them have African ancestry, but Hispanics and those with southern European, Middle Eastern or Asian backgrounds are also affected. Experts have long maintained that advances in treatment have been limited partly because sickle-cell disease is concentrated in less affluent minority communities. “Having tried for a number of years to raise philanthropic money, I can tell you it’s really hard,” said Dr. Williams.An estimated 100,000 people in the United States have sickle-cell disease. Worldwide, about 300,000 infants are born with the condition each year, a figure projected to grow to more than 400,000 by 2050. The disorder is most common in sub-Saharan Africa, where an estimated 70 percent of children with it die before adulthood. In sickle-cell disease, blood cells stuffed with hemoglobin are distorted into sickle shapes. The misshapen cells get stuck in blood vessels, causing strokes, organ damage and episodes of agonizing pain — called crises — as muscles are starved of oxygen. Children usually return to normal between crises, but teenagers and adults may suffer chronic pain. The misshapen cells don’t survive long in the blood — 10 to 20 days, compared to the usual 120 days. Patients may be severely anemic and prone to infections.Daily life can be a challenge. Many adults with sickle-cell disease have no health insurance, especially in states that did not expand Medicaid, noted Dr. John Tisdale, a senior investigator at the National Institutes of Health. Employment can be difficult because the disease is debilitating. Yet many who apply for Social Security disability are denied, Dr. Tisdale said. They end up at emergency rooms when they are in crisis.And treating the disease, with its complications, is expensive: annual costs per patient are estimated at $10,000 a year for children and $30,000 for adults. Those with the disorder go in and out of hospitals.Mrs. Roberts knows this cycle all too well.Her daughter, Britney Williams, had sickle-cell disease. At 22, she went into the hospital during a crisis and died, leaving behind a baby daughter.Mrs. Roberts’ son, Mr. Williams, was devastated and terrified. He told her he had suffered too much, and his big sister’s death brought home to him the fact that his life, too, could end at any moment. He wanted to stop the monthly blood transfusions that were easing his symptoms. He wanted to go ahead and die.Then Dr. Alexis Thompson, head of hematology at Lurie Children’s Hospital in Chicago, told Mr. Williams that he could join a new study of gene therapy that might help. There were no guarantees, and there was a chance Mr. Williams could die from the treatment.Mr. Williams was enthusiastic, but his mother was filled with trepidation. In the end, she decided “we’ve got to try something,” she recalled.Mr. Williams was among the first to get one of the experimental gene therapies, in which researchers attempted to give his immature blood cells a new and functional gene.Mrs. Roberts and the family pastor watched as the treated cells dripped back into his veins.“I was so overwhelmed,” Mrs. Roberts recalled. “I cried tears of joy.” In the 1980s, when researchers first began thinking of gene therapy to correct genetic disorders, sickle-cell disease was at the top of the list.In theory, it seemed straightforward — just one tiny change in a single gene led to a lifetime of misery and an early death. Every patient had exactly the same genetic mutation. To cure the disease, all scientists needed to do was to fix this one genetic error. But it was not so easy. Among the many problems that plagued gene therapy research, there were ones specific to sickle-cell disease.Hemoglobin genes are only active in the precursors of red blood cells, which are derived from bone marrow stem cells, and the genes are only active for about four or five days until mature red blood cells form, Dr. Benz said. Yet when they are active, the genes direct the cells to make enormous amounts of hemoglobin, so much that the red blood cell is like a bag holding gelatin.That left researchers with a problem. “How do you manipulate a gene, or put a gene in, so it is expressed only in those cells and at high levels?” Dr. Benz asked.In the new trials, subjects must have immature blood cells — stem cells — removed from their bone marrow. The stem cells are genetically modified, and then infused back into the patient’s bloodstream. The goal is for the modified cells to take up residence in the bone marrow and form healthy red blood cells. Scientists are testing three methods for modifying stem cells. In the first, a form of gene therapy, a virus is used to insert a viable copy of the hemoglobin gene into the stem cells. Until recently, the viruses had a limited capacity to carry genes, and the hemoglobin gene simply would not fit. Only recently have scientists found viruses that can do the job. The second approach starts with the fact that the human genome can make two kinds of hemoglobin: fetal hemoglobin, active in the fetus but shut off after birth, and adult hemoglobin. Some researchers are trying to block the gene that turns off fetal hemoglobin and turns on adult hemoglobin, allowing patients with sickle-cell disease to produce fetal hemoglobin instead. “We’ve known for decades that hemoglobin is different in a fetus — it doesn’t sickle, and it works as well as adult hemoglobin,” said Dr. Stuart Orkin, a researcher at Harvard University who found the hemoglobin switch. A third strategy depends on gene editing with Crispr, a tool that lets scientists snip out parts of genes and paste in new sections. Several groups are doing early studies with Crispr. With recent advances, all three approaches now seem feasible. Farthest along is a new iteration of gene therapy, currently in trials conducted by Bluebird Bio, a biotech company in Cambridge, Mass.The company reported results for four patients of nine in the study who had been treated at least six months earlier. All four produced enough normal hemoglobin that they no longer had symptoms of sickle-cell disease.Bluebird is now planning a larger study, in consultation with the Food and Drug Administration, that will enroll 41 patients, all of whom will get gene therapy. The company hopes to finish the study and get approval in 2022.Following recent scientific advances, the N.I.H. has launched an initiative called Cure Sickle Cell to speed progress. It will bring “significant new money,” said Dr. Keith Hoots, a division director at the institutes, although the total has not yet been determined. For many of the pioneering patients in these trials, the results have been remarkable.Carmen Duncan, 20, of Charleston, S.C., had her spleen removed when she was 2, a result of complications from sickle-cell disease. She spent much of her childhood in and out of hospitals. “Sometimes I would stay two weeks,” she said. Her arms and legs would ache from blocked blood vessels. “A simple touch really hurt.”Monthly blood transfusions helped, she said, but they were onerous. Then she entered Bluebird’s gene therapy trial. Today, doctors say, she no longer has signs of sickle-cell disease. She had longed to join the military but had been barred because of her condition. Now she plans to enlist.  Manny Johnson, 21, was the first patient in a trial at Boston Children’s Hospital in which researchers are attempting to restart production of fetal hemoglobin. It worked: Doctors say he no longer has the disease.And Mr. Williams? He wound up in the gene therapy trial run by Bluebird. His mother will never forget the call she got from Dr. Thompson, saying her son was producing enough normal blood cells. For him, too, sickle-cell disease has disappeared.“I was like, yes, yes, thank you Lord,” Mrs. Roberts said.AdvertisementSupported byTiesWhen my daughter was hospitalized for cancer treatment, I began collecting leftover condiments and medical supplies in an effort to control something in our uncontrollable world. By Stacy S. KimWhen my daughter got cancer, I began hoarding ketchup packets and digital thermometers.Gillian was 11 when we learned the lingering knee pain was osteosarcoma in her right femur. The treatment protocol for this rare bone disease was a nine-month course of aggressive chemotherapy. Each of the almost-weekly infusions required at least a three-night hospital stay.My husband, Kyle, and I took turns sleeping by her side. Her 13-year-old sister, Allison, gave up time with friends to have dinner with her. Sharing a room with another patient’s family meant twice as many late-night awakenings and no privacy.Gillian was the model patient. She endured painful blisters on her feet, and when she had to throw up she made sure to use a bin so nurses wouldn’t have to change her sheets. She entertained herself with books, origami paper and sketchpads. This wasn’t surprising. Even as a toddler, she had designed independent projects so I could build my life coaching practice. Once while I worked, she manufactured a pair of spectacles from Kleenex and water.But, when I crawled into her hospital bed to snuggle and kiss her good night, she regularly sobbed quietly in my arms. As much as I tried, I couldn’t stop my tears from trickling down my cheeks onto her soft bald head.I had been raised not to complain, but to “always give thanks” and cherish the little we had. My parents were Korean immigrants, a Presbyterian minister and a teacher. If I couldn’t finish dinner, my father would tap his chopsticks against the edge of the table to a slow timed beat.“Every few seconds, a child dies of hunger,” he would say.Feeling guilty, I cleaned my plate.Perhaps this is why I had taken up an obsession with hospital waste. For each overnight stay, we received two brand-new digital thermometers, a stethoscope, a pulse-ox finger band and a blood pressure arm band. Watching the maintenance staff clean half of the room after each of Gillian’s roommates was discharged, I saw these and more go into the garbage — even new items with packaging untouched.I asked one of the head nurses, “Why not reuse unopened items?”“Once supplies leave the ‘clean room’ they can’t go back.”When Gillian was too nauseated to touch any food, I tried to stop the kitchen aide from tossing items on her tray. I suggested she return the sealed milk, yogurt and Jell-O.“I can’t. I’ll get into trouble!”The wastefulness irked me. Ignoring advice I often gave my clients — to go easy on oneself in times of stress — I took up the fight to conserve. I started taking things home.As soon as I arrived at the hospital, I swapped the pair of new thermometers with saved used ones. When my shift was over, I took home cartons of milk and packets of condiments.I was embarrassed that I was becoming my parents. They couldn’t waste any scraps because of haunting memories of hunger during the Korean War. To hide the evidence, I squeezed out 18 packets of Italian dressing into a jar. I made rice pudding with the milk. I gave away hand sanitizer. I hid grape jelly packets in a brown bag in the back corner of the crisper drawer.I knew that what I was doing was probably a reaction to stress, but was I turning into a hoarder? I later asked Dr. Carolyn Rodriguez, the director of the Stanford Hoarding Disorders Research Program. She said, “Not all collecting behavior is a hoarding disorder.” While she couldn’t diagnose me over the phone, she explained that those suffering from the psychiatric condition usually have “difficulty parting with possessions and clutter that impairs living in their homes.”Meanwhile, friends complimented me on how well we were managing. But I knew otherwise, even though the accumulation was not in plain view. I might not have been doing the kind of hoarding that creates a fire hazard, but it clearly wasn’t healthy.Then one night near the end of Gillian’s treatment, my daughters broke into their most explosive fight.“Do you know how hard it is to be YOUR sister?” Allison asked. “No one cares about me. People only talk to me to ask about you!”“At least you can go to school,” retorted Gillian. “You don’t have to worry about sepsis.”“Shh, c’mon girls. Settle down. You’re disturbing our neighbors,” I pleaded, conscious of how sound traveled in our apartment building.Growing up, my brother and I had never had heated arguments in front of our parents. As “Pastor’s Kids,” we had to be exemplary. My dad enforced this with his weekly opportunity to shame us for our misdemeanors in his sermons.My kids ignored me. Their rage transformed them into creatures I couldn’t recognize. Gillian screamed curse words I didn’t know she knew. Allison stood over her frail sister to intimidate her. This stance reminded me of the one she had taken years ago when she chased down a boy on the ice rink until he fell. Hovering over him, she berated him for calling Gillian a “weirdo.”“I’m sick of people bossing me around, ‘Take care of your sister,’ ‘Be good to your Mom and Dad!’ They don’t see how I go to that smelly hospital carrying all your heavy books,” said Allison.“It’s a good thing you don’t have cancer. You’d never survive,” Gillian said.I begged them to stop, looking to Kyle for help. That’s when I saw how calm he was. Having lost his father at 11, he was raised by his gentle Japanese-American mother. I could see her peaceful face as he simply listened to our daughters’ fight.From his reaction, I realized that our girls were not attacking each other. They were taking turns expressing their pain, jealousy and anxiety. He was creating a safe place to air their grievances.I saw my powerlessness in new light. Even if I could shut down the fight, I couldn’t stop how they felt. I had no choice but to allow the medical machine to aggressively treat Gillian. The medicines intended to heal were so toxic that nurses wore protective gloves to administer them. They made our baby sick, which hurt us to watch.Unable to save my family from the horrors of cancer, I had been rescuing Band-Aids and apple sauce from the trash. But instead of hoarding as an attempt to exert some control, I needed to experience my feelings.Three months after the chemotherapy ended, Gillian got her first scan. When her oncologist informed us it was clean, I cried with relief. I couldn’t stop so the doctor held me. In the cab home, I began to sob again. This time, Gillian took my hand.When we got home, I retrieved 13 untouched bottles of leftover medicine stowed away in my closet. Mixing the pills into coffee grounds, I buried them deep in the trash. I peeled off every label bearing Gillian’s name and tossed the plastic containers into the recycling bin.A century ago, British scientists suggested a link between increased hygiene and allergic conditions — the first hint that our immune systems are becoming improperly “trained.”CreditCreditMike McQuadeSupported byBy Matt RichtelExcerpted from “An Elegant Defense: The Extraordinary New Science of the Immune System,” published on Tuesday by William Morrow.Should you pick your nose?Don’t laugh. Scientifically, it’s an interesting question.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Should your children pick their noses? Should your children eat dirt? Maybe: Your body needs to know what immune challenges lurk in the immediate environment. Should you use antibacterial soap or hand sanitizers? No. Are we taking too many antibiotics? Yes.“I tell people, when they drop food on the floor, please pick it up and eat it,” said Dr. Meg Lemon, a dermatologist in Denver who treats people with allergies and autoimmune disorders. “Get rid of the antibacterial soap. Immunize! If a new vaccine comes out, run and get it. I immunized the living hell out of my children. And it’s O.K. if they eat dirt.”Dr. Lemon’s prescription for a better immune system doesn’t end there. “You should not only pick your nose, you should eat it,” she said. She’s referring, with a facetious touch, to the fact our immune system can become disrupted if it doesn’t have regular interactions with the natural world.“Our immune system needs a job,” Dr. Lemon said. “We evolved over millions of years to have our immune systems under constant assault. Now they don’t have anything to do.”She isn’t alone. Leading physicians and immunologists are reconsidering the antiseptic, at times hysterical, ways in which we interact with our environment.Why? Let us turn to 19th-century London. The British Journal of Homeopathy, volume 29, published in 1872, included a startlingly prescient observation: “Hay fever is said to be an aristocratic disease, and there can be no doubt that, if it is not almost wholly confined to the upper classes of society, it is rarely, if ever, met with but among the educated.” Hay fever is a catchall term for seasonal allergies to pollen and other airborne irritants. With this idea that hay fever was an aristocratic disease, British scientists were on to something. More than a century later, in November 1989, another highly influential paper was published on the subject of hay fever. The paper was short, less than two pages, in BMJ, titled “Hay Fever, Hygiene, and Household Size.” The author looked at the prevalence of hay fever among 17,414 children born in March 1958. Of 16 variables the scientist explored, he described as “most striking” an association between the likelihood that a child would get hay fever allergy and the number of his or her siblings. It was an inverse relationship, meaning the more siblings the child had, the less likely it was that he or she would get the allergy. Not just that, but the children least likely to get allergies were ones who had older siblings.The paper hypothesized that “allergic diseases were prevented by infection in early childhood, transmitted by unhygienic contact with older siblings, or acquired prenatally from a mother infected by contact with her older children.“Over the past century declining family size, improvements in household amenities, and higher standards of personal cleanliness have reduced the opportunity for cross infection in young families,” the paper continued. “This may have resulted in more widespread clinical expression of atopic disease, emerging in wealthier people, as seems to have occurred for hay fever.”This is the birth of the hygiene hypothesis. The ideas behind it have since evolved and expanded, but it provides profound insight into a challenge that human beings face in our relationship with the modern world. Our ancestors evolved over millions of years to survive in their environments. For most of human existence, that environment was characterized by extreme challenges, like scarcity of food, or food that could carry disease, as well as unsanitary conditions and unclean water, withering weather, and so on. It was a dangerous environment, a heck of a thing to survive.At the center of our defenses was our immune system, our most elegant defense. The system is the product of centuries of evolution, as a river stone is shaped by water rushing over it and the tumbles it experiences on its journey downstream.Late in the process, humans learned to take steps to bolster our defenses, developing all manner of customs and habits to support our survival. In this way, think of the brain — the organ that helps us develop habits and customs — as another facet of the immune system. We used our collective brains to figure out effective behaviors. We started washing our hands and took care to avoid certain foods that experience showed could be dangerous or deadly. In some cultures, people came to avoid pork, which we now know is highly susceptible to trichinosis; in others, people banned meats, which we later learned may carry toxic loads of E. coli and other bacteria.Ritual washing is mentioned in Exodus, one of the earliest books in the Bible: “So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die not.”Our ideas evolved, but for the most part, the immune system did not. This is not to say that it didn’t change. The immune system responds to our environment. When we encounter various threats, our defenses learn and then are much more able to deal with that threat in the future. In that way, we adapt to our environment.We survived over tens of thousands of years. Eventually, we washed our hands, swept our floors, cooked our food, avoided certain foods altogether. We improved the hygiene of the animals we raised and slaughtered for food. Particularly in the wealthier areas of the world, we purified our water, and developed plumbing and waste treatment plants; we isolated and killed bacteria and other germs. The immune system’s enemies list was attenuated, largely for the good. Now, though, our bodies are proving that they cannot keep up with this change. We have created a mismatch between the immune system — one of the longest surviving and most refined balancing acts in the world — and our environment. Thanks to all the powerful learning we’ve done as a species, we have minimized the regular interaction not just with parasites but even with friendly bacteria and parasites that helped to teach and hone the immune system — that “trained” it. It doesn’t encounter as many bugs when we are babies. This is not just because our homes are cleaner, but also because our families are smaller (fewer older children are bringing home the germs), our foods and water cleaner, our milk sterilized. Some refer to the lack of interaction with all kinds of microbes we used to meet in nature as the “old friends mechanism.” What does the immune system do when it’s not properly trained?It can overreact. It becomes aggrieved by things like dust mites or pollen. It develops what we called allergies, chronic immune system attacks — inflammation — in a way that is counterproductive, irritating, even dangerous. The percentage of children in the United States with a food allergy rose 50 percent between 1997–1999 and 2009–2011, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The jump in skin allergies was 69 percent during that period, leaving 12.5 percent of American children with eczema and other irritations. Food and respiratory allergies rose in tandem with income level. More money, which typically correlates with higher education, has meant more risk of allergy. This may reflect differences in who reports such allergies, but it also springs from differences in environment.These trends are seen internationally, too. Skin allergies “doubled or tripled in industrialized countries during the past three decades, affecting 15–30 percent of children and 2–10 percent of adults,” according to a paper citing research from the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology. By 2011, one in four children in Europe had an allergy, and the figure was on the rise, according to a report by the World Allergy Organization. Reinforcing the hygiene hypothesis, the paper noted that migration studies have shown that children born overseas have lower levels of some types of both allergy and autoimmunity than migrants whose children are born in the United States.There are related trends in inflammatory bowel disease, lupus, rheumatic conditions and, in particular, celiac disease. The last results from the immune’s system overreacting to gluten, a protein in wheat, rye and barley. This attack, in turn, damages the walls of the small intestine.This might sound like a food allergy, but it is different in part because of the symptoms. In the case of an autoimmune disorder like this one, the immune system attacks the protein and associated regions.Allergies can generate a more generalized response. A peanut allergy, for instance, can lead to inflammation in the windpipe, known as anaphylaxis, which can cause strangulation.In the case of both allergy and autoimmune disorders, though, the immune system reacts more strongly than it otherwise might, or than is healthy for the host (yeah, I’m talking about you).This is not to say that all of these increases are due to better hygiene, a drop in childhood infection, and its association with wealth and education. There have been many changes to our environment, including new pollutants. There are absolutely genetic factors as well. But the hygiene hypothesis — and when it comes to allergy, the inverse relationship between industrialized processes and health — has held up remarkably well.As our bodies strive for balance, Madison Avenue has made a full-court press for greater hygiene, sometimes to our detriment. We’re fed a steady diet of a hygiene-related marketing that began in the late 1800s, according to a novel study published in 2001 by the Association for Professionals in Infection Control and Epidemiology. Scientists at Columbia University who did the research were trying to understand how we became so enamored of soap products. Some highlights:The Sears catalog in the early 1900s heavily advertised “ammonia, Borax, and laundry and toilet soap.”“During the early to mid-1900s, soap manufacturing in the United States increased by 44 percent,” coinciding with “major improvements in water supply, refuse disposal and sewage systems.”The marketing trailed off in the 1960s and 1970s as antibiotics and vaccines were understood to be the answer to infectious agents, with less emphasis on “personal responsibility.”But then, starting in the late 1980s, the market for such hygiene products — home and personal — surged 81 percent. The authors cite a “return of public concern for protection against infectious disease,” and it’s hard not to think of AIDS as part of that attention. If you’re in marketing, never waste a crisis, and the messages had an impact. The study cites a Gallup poll from 1998 that found that 66 percent of adults worried about virus and bacteria, and 40 percent “believed these microorganisms were becoming more widespread.” Gallup also reported that 33 percent of adults “expressed the need for antibacterial cleansers to protect the home environment,” and 26 percent believed they were needed to protect the body and skin.They were wrong. And even doctors have been wrong. They have vastly overprescribed antibiotics. These may be a huge boon to an immune system faced with an otherwise deadly infection. But when used without good reason, the drugs can wipe out healthy microbes in our gut and cause bacteria to develop defenses that make them even more lethal.A scientist who led efforts at the World Health Organization to develop global policy to limit use of antibiotics told me that, philosophically, this is a lesson that runs counter to a century of marketing: We’re not safer when we try to eliminate every risk from our environment.“We have to get away from the idea of annihilating these things in our local environment. It just plays upon a certain fear,” said the scientist, Dr. Keiji Fukuda. Has much of our hygiene been practical, valuable, life-preserving? Yes.Have we overcorrected? At times. Should you pick your nose? Or put another way: Might that urge to pick be part of a primitive strategy to inform your immune system about the range of microbes in your environment, give this vigilant force activity, and train your most elegant defense?Yes. Perhaps. In short, from a cultural standpoint, you still probably shouldn’t pick — not in public. But it is a surprisingly fair scientific question.AdvertisementSupported byBy Allan KredaIslanders goalie Robin Lehner heard his name chanted loudly at Nassau Coliseum in the closing minutes of Sunday’s 3-0 win over the Anaheim Ducks, another sterling performance in a renaissance season for him and his team. He clapped in appreciation and smiled toward the sellout crowd.Ten months ago he had reached rock-bottom. As he wrote in an essay for The Athletic in September, Lehner was drinking a case of beer a day and taking pills to sleep. He thought about suicide. Then in March he had a panic attack during a game with the Buffalo Sabres. Soon he entered the league’s substance abuse recovery program and received a diagnosis of bipolar disorder with manic episodes.Now, he is 10 months sober and an integral part of the Islanders’ stunning turnaround under their new coach, Barry Trotz.Lehner, 27, is 11-1-1 mark since mid-December and entered Wednesday’s games leading the league in goals-against average (2.02) and save percentage (.931).Last year the Islanders allowed a league-worst 293 goals. Behind their goalies Lehner and Thomas Greiss and Trotz’s defense-oriented game plan, the team has reversed course, winning 15 of its last 19 games heading into the All-Star break this weekend. They are in first place in the Metropolitan Division, a position few pundits thought even remotely possible before the season.“We started off the year with a belief in a new coach and new system and I think everyone has bought in,” said Lehner, who is 15-7-4 with three shutouts, already surpassing his victory total with the Sabres last season. “When you come to work with purpose every day and everyone buys in every day, it gets the focus going.”Since last March Lehner has worked to resuscitate his personal life and on-ice livelihood. Admitting he had never had a sober season during his hockey career, he focuses daily to control his addiction.“I’m an alcoholic and I have a few other things, but it’s treatable,” said Lehner, who was also found to have A.D.H.D. and post-traumatic stress disorder. “I was in a very dark place. I didn’t see much in the future at one point. Now I feel good. I’m coming along.”Lehner, whose father was a goaltending teacher for the Rangers star Henrik Lundqvist in Sweden, played parts of five seasons with the Ottawa Senators before tending goal for the next three years in Buffalo.Islanders General Manager Lou Lamoriello signed Lehner to a one-year contract in July and paired him with Greiss under Trotz and the goaltending gurus Mitch Korn and Piero Greco.“I knew about the ability and talent he had and things for whatever reason went in the wrong direction,” Lamoriello said during training camp. “I just called — I knew the agency that he is with — and I said, ‘why don’t you come in and let’s have a conversation.’ It was something we felt very comfortable with.”The Islanders have emerged as a surprising story line after the departure via free agency of their former superstar captain John Tavares to the Toronto Maple Leafs. Fans were furious over Tavares’s exit and seemed resigned to a rebuilding season. But the team’s defense has forged a fresh confidence under Trotz, allowing a league-low 118 goals through 49 games.The offense has flourished with steady production from all corners. Eight Islanders have scored at least 11 goals, the first time since the 1984-85 season that the team has generated such a balanced attack at this juncture of the season.Lehner emphasized that success is a byproduct of the team’s cohesiveness. Players and their families live in proximity of one another, the team’s practice home in East Meadow, and Nassau Coliseum, where they are playing half their home games this season.Lehner said he detected a positive environment with his new squad even before moving to Long Island to train with his teammates over the summer.“I hadn’t played with anyone on this team before, but as soon as I signed, I think the whole team sent me a text message,” said Lehner, who has a young son and daughter with his wife, Donya.Cal Clutterbuck, an Islander since 2013, has marveled at Lehner’s focus and dedication from the start of their relationship on the ice.“You know you can’t go through something like that alone, and he’s got a nice support system here,” Clutterbuck said. “He’s living his life the right way and getting rewarded for it.”Trotz, who also heard his name chanted Sunday as the Islanders won for the fifth time in seven games back at their raucous former home, said Lehner’s achievements in tandem with Greiss are a boon for the team’s psyche.“He knows how important he is,” said Trotz, who joined the Islanders after winning the Stanley Cup with the Washington Capitals last season. “He and Greisser have been exceptional. When you feel that you’re part of the success and part of the reason you’re having success, it’s got to feel good.”Amid the relentless swirl of the season, Lehner said he had not fully absorbed what his turnaround might mean for those encountering similar life battles. He is more focused on managing his crease and being a husband and father.“I still have a lot of emails and letters to go through,” he said. “It’s not about being an inspiration figure. It’s about shining a light. If you have these problems, it’s treatable. You need to get help. You need to find support. You can’t do it alone. That’s all the message there is.”AdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Jeremy EngleBefore reading the article: Pick a letter. Any letter.Choose one of the 26 letters in the alphabet and imagine you have to explain how to make the sound of that letter to a young child or someone who has never heard or spoken it before.Write a series of detailed instructions for how to make the sound of the letter you have selected.Before writing, experiment saying the letter aloud in different ways — at different speeds, for example, or by exaggerating the movement or your mouth and lips. Pay close attention to what your lips, tongue, mouth, teeth, jaw, throat and neck are doing as you make the sound.After writing your instructions, find a partner and take turns reading them aloud and seeing if the other person can produce the sounds correctly from the description alone. Or play a game with the class: Can students guess the letter just from the detailed instructions?Briefly reflect on your experience: What was it like writing the instructions? What was it like trying to vocalize the letter based on another student’s instructions? Which letter was harder to describe and produce and why?Not so easy, huh?Now imagine inventing that sound for the first time …Next, read the article, “Did Dietary Changes Bring Us ‘F’ Words? Study Tackles Complexities of Language’s Origins,” and answer the following questions: 1. Who is Balthasar Bickel and what are the two big ideas in the study he recently co-authored? How certain is he of its conclusions?2. Why would it have been hard to make an “f” or “v” sound for hunter-gatherers living 100,000 years ago? What according to Mr. Bickel made them possible?3. Why is Mr. Bickel’s consideration of biological factors in studying the development of human language controversial? Why are some linguists concerned about possible ethnocentric or racist interpretations that might arise from the study?4. How did Mr. Bickel research the sounds humans made thousands of years ago, when obviously there were no audio recordings from the time to listen to?5. What is the relationship between the alignment of teeth and jaws on the sounds one can produce? What linguistic difference does it make if you have overbite versus an edge-to-edge bite?6. The article cites several alternate scenarios for the development of certain sounds offered by critics of the study. Which counterargument do you believe is strongest and why? How does Mr. Bickel respond to his critics?Finally, tell us more about what you think: — What was most fascinating or thought-provoking in the article? How does it make you think about human language differently? How convincing is Mr. Bickel and his team’s explanation for the origin of the “f” and the “v?”— How important is this kind of research? What difference can it make in our lives? Would you consider studying linguistics?— Do you have a favorite letter? If yes, why?AdvertisementSupported byThe active ingredients of ketamine, a popular club drug, show promise in battling deep despair.By Benedict CareyIn a move that may clear the way for the first new treatment in years for depression, an expert panel recommended on Tuesday that federal regulators approve a nasal spray that delivers the active ingredients of ketamine, a popular club drug in the 1980s and 1990s.The new drug, called Esketamine and developed by Johnson & Johnson, is aimed at people with severe depression, particularly those with suicidal thinking. The panel, with 17 voting members, including psychiatrists and consumer representatives, was nearly unanimous in deciding that the drug’s benefits outweighed its risks. The Food and Drug Administration typically follows the recommendations of its expert panels.In recent years, scores of clinics have opened around the country, offering to administer intravenous ketamine for depression, on a schedule similar to that of electroshock therapy: as a series of treatments, over a period of days or weeks, and sometimes including follow-up or “booster” visits months later. These treatments, at an average cost of $3,000, are officially “off-label,” and usually are not covered by insurance. Their effectiveness is not well studied, although people who have received the course of treatment have reported rapid, if not always lasting, relief.If approved, Esketamine would be covered by most insurers.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The interest in ketamine as a potential treatment dates back to 2006, when researchers at the National Institute of Mental Health, led by Dr. Carlos A. Zarate, reported that 18 people who received the drugs intravenously reported that their despair lifted within hours. The drugs currently on the market for depression typically take two weeks or more to provide any noticeable relief, if they do so at all.The discovery of ketamine’s effects on depression was serendipitous; the underlying biology of the disorder remains unknown. Some researchers have since turned away from investigating serotonin — the brain transmitter on which most popular antidepressants work — to instead study the effect of ketamine on brain chemistry, to see if the drug provides any clues to the biology of depression. The federal agency has until March 4 to decide whether to approve the drug. Brook Johnson, 38, a piano teacher in Westminster, Md., has been waiting on approval for months. Ms. Johnson, who is married and has a 9-year-old daughter, doesn’t know if Esketamine will help her, but said that existing antidepressants have failed. She said she had been in and out of psychiatric hospitals six times and has attempted suicide twice.“It was back and forth, and then I’d relapse and they’d put me back in,” Ms. Johnson said in an interview last month. “None of the medicines ever seemed to work. At best, they would either numb me out completely, and you just feel nothing and you can’t think.”“I need alternative treatment as soon as possible,” she said.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben KenigsbergOur guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.THE COMPLETE LONE WOLF AND CUB at Japan Society (Jan. 25-26). After being set up, a former shogun executioner (Tomisaburo Wakayama) strikes out as a roving, freelance assassin. He offers his infant son a choice between a sword and a ball to play with, and the child, too young even to speak, reaches for the shiny weapon — sealing his fate to tag along. Japan Society is screening this run of six films, adapted from a blockbuster manga series and a clear inspiration for Quentin Tarantino’s “Kill Bill,” in marathon form.212-715-1258, japansociety.orgEROTIC JOURNEYS: EM(M)ANUELLE & JUST JAECKIN at the Quad Cinema (Jan. 25-Feb. 7). After hosting a series of (mostly) serious-minded X-rated films that expanded the mainstream, the Quad turns to soft-core qua soft-core with the hit 1970s skin flick “Emmanuelle” (starting on Friday) and the movies it spawned. In the original, the title character, played by the Dutch actress Sylvia Kristel, is guided by both men and women toward sexual fulfillment in Thailand, in ways that, to put it mildly, do not pass contemporary standards for gender or cultural sensitivity, or consent. Sequels and knockoffs (some of which omit an “m” in the heroine’s name) follow on the docket, along with other films by the first movie’s director, whose authorial signature — “un film de Just Jaeckin” — has to rank among the most guffaw-worthy credits in screen history.212-255-2243, quadcinema.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]HOU HSIAO-HSIEN IN THE 21ST CENTURY at the Metrograph (Jan. 25-Feb. 3). Before the 21st century, American champions of this Taiwanese director spent years bemoaning that his films went unreleased in the United States. That streak ended when “Millennium Mambo” (on Friday and Saturday) — a visually rhapsodic, sidelong look at youth and anomie — sneaked into theaters at the end of 2003, two years after its Cannes premiere. The subsequent “Three Times” (on Saturday and Sunday) — which proceeds in three chronologically disordered segments (1966, 1911, 2005) in styles suited to each era — is an ideal introduction to Hou’s work. And his Yasujiro Ozu homage “Café Lumiere” (on Feb. 3 and 4) is one of the greatest films about the paradoxical isolation of city life. 212-660-0312, metrograph.comAdvertisementSupported byARTS & LEISUREAn article on Page 1 about the artists Gillie and Marc Schattner, using information from the artists and the MetroTech BID, misidentifies the organization that secured “The Last Three” sculpture in Brooklyn’s MetroTech Commons. While MetroTech Commons is a privately operated space within the MetroTech BID, the BID did not secure the work. The error is repeated in a picture caption. The article also misstates Jennifer Lantzas’s position with the New York City Department of Parks & Recreation. She is its deputy director of public art, not its public arts coordinator.TRAVELAn article on Page 1 about Jada Yuan’s experiences traveling the world for The New York Times misstates the surname of a woman who was murdered in Washington last year. She was Wendy Martinez, not Marina. The article also misidentifies a farmer in Puerto Rico who told Ms. Yuan and a friend about a party. He is Elmer Sánchez, not Rafael.•Because of an editing error, an article on Dec. 23 about the Dead Sea misstated the amount of money in dollars that the Israeli tourism ministry recently spent on improvements at the Ein Bokek resort area. It was $135 million, not $13 million.REAL ESTATEA photograph with the cover story last Sunday, about Manhattan’s housing market in 2018, was published in error. The picture showed 21 West End Avenue, not One West End Avenue, where several notable sales occurred.THE MAGAZINEAn article on Dec. 16 about a patient who had a rare autoimmune disorder misstated the location of a Toronto hospital. While North York General Hospital is in Toronto, it is not in the downtown section of the city.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — U.S. health officials are investigating whether electronic cigarettes may trigger seizures in some people who use the nicotine-vaping devices.The Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday it has reviewed 35 reports of seizures among e-cigarettes users, mainly in young people. Regulators stressed it's not yet clear whether vaping is responsible. But they said they're concerned and encouraged the public to report information about the issue.These cases warrant "investigation into whether there is in fact a connection," FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said in a statement. Gottlieb is stepping down on Friday after nearly two years heading the agency.Cases go back to 2010 and were reported to the FDA or poison control centers around the country. Regulators said they detected an uptick in reports beginning mid-2018. While they represent a tiny fraction of Americans who have used e-cigarettes, many safety issues with foods, supplements and other consumer products can go unrecognized because reporting is voluntary.Most e-cigarettes heat a flavored nicotine solution into an inhalable vapor. The battery-powered devices have grown into a multibillion dollar industry though there are few standards, including how much nicotine they deliver. Additionally, many refillable e-cigarettes can be used with nicotine formulas of varying strength.Nicotine poisoning can cause seizures, convulsions, vomiting and brain injury. The FDA has previously warned of potentially fatal nicotine poisoning in infants and children who accidentally swallowed nicotine solutions.Seizures usually last a few seconds or minutes and rarely cause permanent injury. But they can be a sign of underlying neurological disorders that need medical attention.Laboratory and animal studies have found a link between nicotine and hyperactivity in the brain. What needs further study is what type of e-cigarette could deliver levels of nicotine capable of causing seizures, said Maciej Goniewicz, a toxicologist at Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center in Buffalo, New York.The FDA said the handful of seizure reports often lack information about the brand of e-cigarette or whether users had a medical condition that might have contributed. In some cases, e-cigarettes were being used with drugs like marijuana and amphetamines. Some seizures were reported after just a few puffs of the device, others after a day of use.The FDA is asking consumers to report problems to an online site. The agency is seeking details about vaping brands and models and whether users who have experienced problems were also taking medications, supplements or other drugs.A spokesman for the American Vaping Association called the FDA announcement "incredibly irresponsible," given the uncertain connection between e-cigarettes and the handful of reports cited."It would actually be highly unusual if zero consumers of a product used by millions of adults over the last decade reported suffering a seizure," spokesman Gregory Conley said in a statement.It's not the first time the FDA has flagged a potential health hazard with vaping devices — the agency has warned of rare burns and explosions related to overheating of batteries that power the devices.The latest concern comes amid a nationwide push to fight underage use of e-cigarettes, which have surged in popularity among high school and middle school students. Last month the FDA outlined new restrictions on retail and online sales of most flavored e-cigarettes. Meanwhile, local and state officials are considering age restrictions, taxes and flavor bans to keep the products away from teenagers.___Follow Matthew Perrone on Twitter: @AP_FDAwriterAdvertisementSupported bySome churches “weaponize scripture and religion to do very deep damage on the psyche,” one pastor says.By Richard Schiffman“We think of church as a place of healing and transformation, and it is,” says Michael Walrond Jr., pastor of the First Corinthian Baptist Church in Harlem. But for some, he says, “religion has been more bruising and damaging than healing and transformative.”Pastor Mike, as he is called, leads services in a renovated art deco movie palace on Adam Clayton Powell Jr. Boulevard. Under his direction, the church has taken a lead in confronting an issue that few other religious institutions have tackled: what some call religious trauma syndrome. You won’t find this condition in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, which clinicians use to make their diagnoses. But the term has been gaining currency with psychotherapists, counselors and others who work with people who are recovering from the harmful effects of religious indoctrination.Some churches “weaponize scripture and religion to do very deep damage on the psyche,” he said. Gay, lesbian and trans people are told that God condemns them, unwed mothers that they are living in sin, and many natural human desires are deemed evil.Scientific research into the consequences of such religious condemnation remains at an early stage. But the potential for harm is clear. Many suffer for decades from post-traumatic stress disorder-type symptoms, including anxiety, self doubt and feelings of social inadequacyMarcus Jerry Kaz McNeely, 33, who works in an after school program, came to the Hope Center, a free psychiatric clinic run by the First Corinthian Baptist Church, after leaving a church in the Bronx that prohibited watching TV, going to the movies and wearing jewelry. The leader, who demanded absolute obedience, bullied Mr. McNeely from the pulpit for the slightest infractions.“I became sick because of stress, depressed and paranoid,” Mr. McNeely said.Kyndra Frazier, a co-pastor of the church who directs the Hope Center, helped Mr. McNeely shed his “religious perfectionism” and “be O.K. with not being O.K.,” as he put it. She also taught him how to meditate and to “spend more quality time with myself,” a luxury that the fundamentalist church he attended had not allowed him.Pastor Frazier, who struggled with religious condemnation of her sexual orientation as a child growing up in rural North Carolina, tells those who come to her not to blindly believe everything that’s taught from the pulpit or that’s written in the Bible, but to develop their own capacity to discern God’s will for them.Another congregation that is working with those grappling with religious trauma is the Holy Trinity Community Church in Nashville, with a membership that is over 80 percent L.G.B.T. Brice Thomas, the lead pastor, says he first grasped religion’s capacity for harm when his father, a Pentecostal faith healer, died of a treatable skin cancer because the church did not believe in going to doctors. After a stint in the military, Mr. Thomas, who is gay, became ordained in the United Church of Christ, one of the first denominations to affirm marriage equality, and took up his duties in Nashville last year. Together with Jennifer Strickland, a licensed therapist, he is setting up a “Recovering from Religious Trauma Syndrome” group at the church.Pastor Thomas says that releasing feelings of shame and unworthiness takes time and the support of a loving community. He adds, however, that being ostracized by religion can be a blessing in disguise if it pushes one to develop a more authentic personal faith.“I’m grateful to the religious community that I grew up in because the challenges that they presented have brought me to the place I am today,” he said. “I’m also thankful for my sexual orientation because it has opened me to deeper ways of being in relationship to God.”Even after people leave religions where they have suffered abuse, they can still harbor the emotional conviction that they are “basically sinful and wrong,” says Marlene Winell, a human development expert who coined the term “religious trauma syndrome” in a series of articles in 2011.Dr. Winell was raised by missionary parents in Taiwan whose religion, she says, taught her that she was never good enough as a child. She struggled for years “to figure out how to enjoy life,” whose pleasures she had been made to feel guilty about.Dr. Winell’s group, Journey Free, runs retreats where people suffering from religious trauma share personal stories and engage in nurturing exercises like “the baby wrap,” in which participants are swaddled in a blanket and rocked by the others who read statements like “I love you” and “you are welcome to the world.”“I call it reparenting,” Dr. Winell says.Another group that works with victims is the Child-Friendly Faith Project, founded by Janet Heimlich, a journalist who has written about religious child maltreatment. The project has worked with those who say they were traumatized by religious groups, including former attendees of Cal Farley’s Boys Ranch, a Christian boarding school for at-risk children located outside Amarillo, Tex. Brett Higbee, a retired land surveyor who attended the ranch during the late 1970s, said that he was routinely beaten for religious infractions like failing to memorize Bible verses. These experiences made him religion-phobic for years, he said, his pain triggered by entering a church or even hearing Christmas music on the radio.The gap between religious teachings on compassion and the ways that faith sometimes gets misused inspired Dr. Harold G. Koenig, a psychiatrist, and his colleagues at Duke University to develop “religious cognitive therapy” in 2014. The therapy uses “positive scriptures that focus on forgiveness, God’s love and divine mercy to challenge the dysfunctional thoughts that maintain trauma,” says Dr. Koenig.The Duke team has developed workbooks that accentuate this positive content for each of the world’s major religions. Clinical trials, published in 2015, showed that religious people who received the therapy had lower rates of depression and reported more positive emotions like gratitude and optimism than those who did not receive it. The best cure for religious trauma may be a deeper dive into the spiritual core of religious teachings, Dr. Koenig says.AdvertisementSupported byARTS & LEISUREAn article last Sunday about the annual Jane Austen Evening misstated the subject of the celebrations in 2017. It was the 200th anniversary of Austen’s death, not of her birth. A caption with the article misstated the occupation of one of the people participating in the evening. Sydney Stechmann is a commodities clerk at a cemetery and mortuary, not a tutor.SUNDAY BUSINESSAn article last Sunday about wealthy Americans unhappy about tax cuts misstated an aspect of Senator Elizabeth Warren’s tax proposal. Ms. Warren has called for a 2 percent annual tax on assets above $50 million in a household, not on all assets owned by a household with a net worth of $50 million or more. The same error appeared in a Jan. 24 article about Ms. Warren’s tax proposal.SUNDAY REVIEWAn essay last Sunday about feminism and a Catholic education misidentified the process by which women become nuns. They take vows; they are not ordained.•A news analysis last Sunday about the Equal Rights Amendment misstated the proportion of states needed to ratify a constitutional amendment. It is three-fourths of the states, not two-thirds.•Frank Bruni’s column last Sunday included an outdated affiliation for the Rev. Thomas Reese. He is a senior analyst for Religion News Service whose columns appear regularly in The National Catholic Reporter, not a columnist for The National Catholic Reporter.MAGAZINEAn article on Jan. 27 about Manuel Gomez, a private investigator in New York City, referred imprecisely to one way Gomez receives payment from clients. It is not the case that he is paid a fee only if the city settles a lawsuit. Gomez says he is never paid on a contingency basis.•An article on Feb. 3 about a rare cancer of white blood cells called POEMS syndrome misstated the outcome of treatment with stem-cell transplants. While durable remission rates have been shown to reach nearly 100 percent with stem-cell transplants, there is no known permanent cure for POEMS. It is not the case that stem-cell transplants used to treat the disorder result in a nearly 100 percent cure.•An article on Feb. 10 about women and big-wave surfing referred incorrectly to Mira Manickam-Shirley’s role at Brown Girl Surf, a community organization in Oakland, Calif. She is a co-founder, not the founder.BOOK REVIEWA review on Feb. 3 about the memoir “I Am Yours,” by Reema Zaman, misstated the nationality of the author’s mother. She is Bangladeshi, not Thai.•A review on Feb. 10 about Siddharth Dube’s “An Indefinite Sentence,” a memoir that centers on the ravages of AIDS in India, misstated the year a group of prostitutes were arrested in Madras and tested for H.I.V. without their knowledge. It was 1986, not 1996.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).AdvertisementSupported byBy Concepción de LeónThe governor of Puerto Rico signed an executive order on Wednesday banning so-called conversion therapy for gay or transgender minors on the island.The decision came after Puerto Rico’s House of Representatives refused to vote on a bill that would have prohibited conversion therapy, a discredited practice that proponents claim can change a person’s sexual orientation or gender identity. The measure passed the Senate this month.“I firmly believe that the idea that there are people in our society who need treatment because of their gender identity or whom they love is not only absurd, it is harmful to so many children and young adults who deserve to be treated with dignity and respect,” Gov. Ricardo A. Rosselló said in a statement last week announcing his plans.The original bill, introduced by Senators Eduardo Bhatia and Zoé Laboy Alvarado last spring, sought to ban conversion therapy among licensed medical professionals and in religious institutions that receive state funding.The House refused to vote on the bill or hold public hearings for survivors of conversion therapy. The House speaker, Gabriel Rodríguez Aguiló, said in an interview this week that there was little evidence the practice was widely used in Puerto Rico. Members of the House also felt that the definition of conversion therapy was “too broad” and could potentially include other types of rehabilitation therapy, such as for drug addiction, he said.Mr. Rodríguez Aguiló insisted the decision had “nothing to do” with discrimination against the L.G.B.T. community. “This is purely about a legislation that lacks information, that doesn’t have statistics, and we want to act based on the information that can be offered,” he said.Ms. Laboy Alvarado said the House’s decision was “erroneous, wrong, and causes harm to our youth.”She added, “The reality is that even if only one young person was put through it, that’s enough because of the harm that we’re causing them and our responsibility to protect minors.”Alejandro Santiago Calderón, an activist who said he was forced to undergo conversion therapy in Puerto Rico, interpreted the House’s actions as an attempt to silence gay rights activists.“The L.G.B.T. community is tired, ignored, feels invalidated,” he said.Mr. Santiago Calderón works with a number of organizations, including the transgender task force of Coordinadora Paz Para Las Mujeres, a women’s rights organization. He grew up in an evangelical Christian household, but he left the church because officials continually tried to help him “rid himself of the ‘demon of homosexuality’,” he said.“In Puerto Rico, there is no space where I can practice my spirituality,” Mr. Santiago Calderón said. Almost 90 percent of the country identifies as either Catholic or Protestant, according to a 2014 Pew Center study.The executive order requires all institutions seeking a license to practice medicine to certify that they will not offer conversion therapy, according to a news release from Governor Rosselló’s office.The push to ban so-called gay conversion therapy has accelerated across the United States in recent years. The practice has been banned in 15 states and in Washington so far. The Colorado Senate this week passed a bill to prohibit the practice as well, and Gov. Jared Polis has said he will sign it.Conversion therapy, which is based on the idea that homosexuality is a mental disorder that can be treated or cured, has been widely condemned by rights groups and discredited by mental health professionals for the “serious potential harm” it can cause, according to a report issued by the American Psychological Association and 12 other organizations.“Today we take a step forward to raise awareness among the people about this type of practice that causes pain and suffering,” Governor Rosselló said Wednesday.An earlier version of this article misstated the surname of a Puerto Rican activist. He is Alejandro Santiago Calderón, not Santos Calderón.AdvertisementSupported byFor nearly 13 years of running, I had avoided the dreaded walking boot. That streak ended last week.By Jen A. MillerWelcome to the Running newsletter! Every Saturday morning, we email runners with news, advice and some motivation to help you get up and running. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.The only surprising thing about finding out that I had a stress fracture was that it hadn’t happened before. For nearly 13 years of running, I had avoided the dreaded walking boot. That streak ended last week.Spring races: canceled. Spirits: deflated. Dog who likes to go on walks five times a day: annoyed.You may be reading this and thinking — ugh, why run, Jen? This sounds so painful. And let me tell you: Cracking your tibia is quite painful. It’s annoying too. I don’t enjoy walking like a penguin, or how difficult it is to drive a stick shift car right now (when I drive at all). And as nice as it sounds to work from bed, I’d prefer to be writing from my usual spot at the dining room table, where my dog can’t try to jump on my laptop while I tell you how miserable I am.But if I step back and look back over my time running, three injuries in 13 years doesn’t seem like all that terrible of a trade. In the grand scheme of potential catastrophes, four weeks in a walking boot isn’t so bad. It’s not as if one of my organs doesn’t want to work anymore or even that my tibia cracked all the way through. I can still walk the dog, although it’s slower than usual. Considering everything that could go wrong, being annoyed because I hurt my leg is one of the least bad things.But already a longing to run free has set in. I’m trying to look at it this way: If I hadn’t spent more than a decade doing this one physical thing that brings me so much joy — and has kept me healthy, happy and strong — I wouldn’t know what I was missing, and what I’ll be getting back to, sometime later this year.I know a lot of you have been through this, and have probably been stuck in the clunky black walking boot, too. Have you figured out a way to make it less ugly? Did you bedazzle it with all the free time you suddenly had because you couldn’t run? Show me your boots! I’m on Twitter @byjenamiller.How Many Push-Ups Can You Do? It May Be a Good Predictor of Heart HealthLoneliness Is Bad for Your Health. An App May Help.The Financial Toxicity of IllnessA Marvel Hero Copes With Bipolar DisorderSpinning With My ShrinkCan You Get Over a Food Intolerance?Don Bragg, Olympic Pole-Vault Champion, is Dead at 83Run Well!AdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Stephan LeeTHE ALARMING PALSY OF JAMES ORR By Tom Lee“The Alarming Palsy of James Orr” starts with a nod to one of the most recognizable plot openers of all time: An ordinary man wakes up one morning to find that he’s been transformed overnight by a grotesque affliction.By beginning his first novel on such a blatantly Kafkaesque note, it’s as if the British writer Tom Lee is announcing on Page 1 that he’s forgoing all subtlety when it comes to his central metaphor — physical disfigurement as a product of bourgeois dread, a sum of the daily spiritual paper cuts that aspirational living can inflict.James Orr’s particular metamorphosis, at least on the surface, is far more pedestrian than Gregor Samsa’s famous turn as a giant insect. A doctor immediately diagnoses James with Bell’s palsy, a relatively common condition that paralyzes the nerves on one side of the face. She assures James and his wife, Sarah, a touch too casually, that “only a small percentage do not return to more or less normal.”Nevertheless, the protagonist’s lopsided mug is a shocking sight. “The left-hand side of James’s face had collapsed, a balloon with the air gone out of it, a melted waxwork,” giving the unsettling “impression of two different faces, two different people, welded savagely together.” But more than the physical symptoms, the comorbid psychological trauma is what tips James into a hellish downward spiral, which Lee draws us into with unrelenting dread and deadpan wit.At first James treats his recovery like a much-deserved vacation for a hardworking father of two. He’s free to wander his neighborhood, an idyllic development carved out of the dense woods of a former Victorian estate. Yet as his palsy fails to improve, the hallmarks of upper-middle-class ease, which used to provide him almost smug levels of satisfaction, begin to rankle. Everything from the size of a neighbor’s dog (“there was something a little conceited in having an animal this big”), to the gratuitous shirtlessness of the unmarried serial D.I.Y.-er a few doors down (“it was still only March, after all”), to his wife’s “pragmatism and lack of drama” swirls together, amassing into a more serious crisis. James suffers a series of humiliations carrying the taint of failed manhood: He bursts into tears while presiding over a residents’ committee meeting, a friendly neighborhood soccer game turns into an outlet for his mounting aggression, an attempt to seduce his wife after weeks of sleeping apart goes disturbingly awry. Not surprisingly, Lee works the symbol of James’s flaccid face on several levels.Along with impotence, sudden illness is a recurring concern in Lee’s work (including a 2009 story collection, “Greenfly,” not available in the United States). It’s an experience Lee knows intimately, as he addressed in a pair of extraordinary autobiographical essays for The Dublin Review a few years ago. One recounts the time, just before “Greenfly” was published, when he was flattened by an anxiety disorder that left him feeling as if he’d “forgotten how to be”; and the other the medically induced coma he underwent for a case of pneumonia so serious his doctor dubbed him “the sickest man in London” (and his ensuing intensive care unit psychosis, which is just as horrifying as it sounds).In both essays, Lee reckons with the decline of one’s health as a micro-apocalypse — life is separated into a “before” and an “after” — and the almost dystopian alienation that emerges between sufferers and the well. In “James Orr,” he explores these same themes with greater artfulness and delicious doses of body horror and contemporary British social satire. While James doesn’t become an oversize bug, the juxtaposition of his common affliction and Lee’s use of familiar genre conventions adds up to something fresh, highlighting the terrifying plausibility — perhaps even inevitability — of the real-life transformations Kafka predicted to be lurking in our DNA, waiting to wreak havoc on an otherwise ordinary morning.Stephan Lee is an associate director at Bustle and a former editor at Entertainment Weekly. He is at work on a debut novel.AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — A measles outbreak in Brooklyn, primarily among Orthodox Jewish children, prompted New York City on Tuesday to declare a public health emergency, requiring unvaccinated people in the affected areas to get the vaccine or face finesThe city's largest outbreak since 1991 of the once virtually eradicated virus has mainly been confined to the Orthodox Jewish community in the borough's Williamsburg neighborhood, with 285 cases confirmed since October, Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference. That's up sharply from only two reported cases in all of 2017."This is the epicenter of a measles outbreak that is very, very troubling and must be dealt with immediately," de Blasio said. He was joined by city health officials who decried what they called "misinformation" spread by opponents of vaccines. The measles virus is highly contagious and can lead to serious complications and death. While there have been no confirmed deaths so far, 21 people have been hospitalized, with five admitted to intensive care, officials said. All but 39 of the confirmed cases are in children.The outbreak is part of a broader resurgence in the United States, with 465 cases reported in 19 states so far this year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The United States in 2000 declared measles eliminated from the country thanks to widespread vaccination, meaning it was no longer constantly present. But vaccination rates have declined in recent years, according to infectious disease experts. The Brooklyn outbreak has been traced to an unvaccinated child who became infected on a visit to Israel, which is also grappling with an outbreak, according to New York City's Department of Health.Officials from the Department of Health will check vaccination records of anyone who has been in contact with infected patients in certain parts of Brooklyn, officials said. They will impose fines of up to $1,000 on those who have not received the measles-mumps-rubella vaccine and cannot give other evidence of immunity, such as having previously had the measles.It is the first time New York City has ordered mandatory vaccinations in recent history, according to health officials.'PHONY ARTICLES AND STUDIES'Community leaders welcomed the move."We will make sure that everybody who is allowed will be vaccinated," Rabbi David Niederman, the president of the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg, said in a phone interview. "The schools are cooperating, everyone's cooperating."He said he had seen anti-vaccination booklets and misinformation circulate around the tightly knit community, but that most families trusted the Health Department."You get phony, phony articles and studies, so yes, some people will fall for that," he said. "They will do anything and everything to improve the health of their children." The mandatory vaccination order follows an order from the Health Department last week requiring yeshivas and day-care programs serving Williamsburg's Orthodox Jewish community to exclude unvaccinated children or face fines or closure. Another outbreak has hit Orthodox Jewish families in New York's Rockland County. Officials there banned children not vaccinated against measles from public spaces last month.That order was overturned by a state judge on Friday, local media reported. The order is being appealed by Rockland officials.Federal officials are also tracking outbreaks in New Jersey, California, Michigan and Washington state.A growing and vocal fringe of parents oppose vaccinations, believing, contrary to scientific evidence, that ingredients in the vaccines can cause autism or other disorders.City officials also expressed alarm at reports of parents holding "measles parties," where they intentionally expose their unvaccinated children to an infected child in the mistaken belief doing so is a safe means to create immunity.AdvertisementSupported byDiagnosisBy Lisa Sanders, M.D.“Mommy!” Hearing her 9-year-old son cry out, the woman hurried to the bathroom. Through the steam of the still-running shower, she could see him bent over the sink. His slender, wet body shivered in the cold air as he vomited. She grabbed a towel and wrapped it around him, then stroked his head as he retched again and again. When the paroxysms subsided, the mother gently wiped his face and carried him to his bed. He had been sick for nearly a week and she could feel that, skinny as he was, he had lost more weight.She called the pediatrician’s office but knew no one would be there; on Saturdays, it closed around noon. It was the week before Christmas, and that night the mother and father were supposed to take the kids to trade gifts with their aunts, uncles and cousins. Did the boy want to go? Oh, yes, he insisted. He felt O.K. But when they got there, their normally social son lay sprawled on the floor, enjoying the hubbub and the gifts but too sick and tired to join the excited tumble.Fortunately, her son’s doctor, Deborah Greenhouse, was on call. The mother took her son in on Sunday morning to see her.↓From Healthy to SickThe boy had seen Greenhouse for his routine annual physical just three weeks earlier. Then, he was fine — lively, funny, engaged. Two weeks later, he went back for a sore throat and a stomachache. He didn’t have a fever, but he had thrown up several times, and it hurt to talk. His throat was red, and he looked a little dehydrated; both doctor and mother, who was a nurse, thought it was probably some kind of virus. He needed to drink more, and he would be fine in a day or two, they both agreed.He was well enough to go to school for a couple of days that week, but by Thursday he felt bad again, and by that weekend he was a shadow of his usual self: tired, nauseated and much too quiet. When Greenhouse saw the child that Sunday morning, she was surprised by how sick he looked. He had clearly lost weight; he was listless and miserable. On careful examination, she noticed that subtle patches of slightly darkened skin shadowed his face, neck and upper torso, and his lips were dry and cracked. His heart was racing. When she saw a thin child with stomach problems, she worried about Type 1 diabetes and celiac disease. Greenhouse sent the mother and child to the lab for blood tests.A couple of hours later, Greenhouse got the lab results. The child’s blood had critically low levels of sodium — one of the essential salts in the body. Low sodium, or hyponatremia, as it is called, isn’t a rare finding in children — vomiting or diarrhea can cause the sodium level to dip as the child becomes dehydrated. But typically it’s a mild drop of a few points below normal. This child’s sodium was much lower than that. And the causes of this type of electrolyte disturbance are rare and serious.Disorders of the kidney — the organ that has the job of maintaining the right levels of all the salts in the body — are the most common causes of hyponatremia. Hormonal abnormalities, due to deficiencies in thyroid or adrenal hormones, can also cause low sodium levels. Head trauma, too, can lead the brain to misdirect the kidneys, resulting in salt-wasting. No matter the cause, untreated, this degree of hyponatremia can be deadly. Greenhouse told the mother to take her son to the hospital right away.Greenhouse called the pediatric I.C.U. at Prisma Health Children’s Hospital in Columbia, S.C., to let them know she was sending her patient over. With a sodium level this low, the boy would need to be admitted to intensive care. When Greenhouse looked at the boy’s lab results, she thought she knew what he had. It wasn’t either of the diseases she had initially been worried about. His blood glucose level was fine, so he didn’t have diabetes. And he didn’t have any of the antibodies that indicate celiac disease. A closer look at the blood chemistries revealed that while low sodium was the most drastic finding, it was not the only abnormality. His potassium was slightly high. The combination of low sodium and high potassium suggested that the boy had a problem with his adrenal glands.↓Malfunctioning GlandsIn children, adrenal insufficiency, also known as Addison’s disease, is usually caused by misguided warrior cells of the immune system destroying the thumb-size adrenal gland that sits on top of each kidney. These glands are the source of the “fight or flight” hormones, adrenaline and cortisol, which help the kidney manage the body’s level of sodium, potassium and glucose. When the adrenals are out of whack, patients are sick and tired. They often can’t keep anything down.Greenhouse thought of the darkened skin she noted on the boy’s face and neck — another clue to the diagnosis. When the brain detects the lack of cortisol and adrenaline, it will flood the body with chemical messengers in an effort to stimulate the glands that can no longer respond. Some of these messengers cause the skin to darken.↓Pressing Her CaseGreenhouse explained her thinking to the pediatrician on duty in the I.C.U. He was skeptical. Lots of things can cause these abnormalities in electrolytes, and Addison’s is really rare. They would take it from here, he assured her.Later, Greenhouse reviewed the notes the doctors had put in the electronic medical record. No one had noted the patient’s darkened skin, or the fact that the child’s doctor had noted some subtle hyperpigmentation. They did comment on how tired and dehydrated the boy was and started him on intravenous fluids. If it was just dehydration causing the hyponatremia, the boy’s sodium should improve with these fluids.By morning, his sodium level was higher but still far from normal. And his potassium was even worse than it had been. The doctors in the I.C.U. asked the endocrinology team to see the patient. They immediately ordered a test to look for the loss of adrenal-gland function, characteristic of Addison’s. But they were also worried about a disease even rarer than Addison’s — an inherited disorder called X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. This is an unusual genetic abnormality that can look like Addison’s because it often starts with the deterioration of the adrenal gland. But it can also go on to destroy the nerve cells in the brain and the body, causing symptoms from seizures to blindness to difficulty eating, speaking and walking. There are different versions of the disease, and depending on which type is inherited, it can strike at any time, from infancy to adulthood.↓Is It Bad or Is It Terrible?The first test results confirmed that the boy’s adrenal glands were not working. He would need to take pharmaceutical versions of these hormones. But they still needed to find out if it was Addison’s disease, caused by an immune-system misstep, or the even more worrisome inherited X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy. The endocrinologists sent off blood to look for both diseases. The answers wouldn’t come back for weeks.Once the doctors in the I.C.U. started giving the boy the steroid hormones that his adrenal glands were no longer making, his sodium came up and his potassium went down. The nausea and vomiting stopped, and almost overnight he was the happy, energetic 9-year-old he had once been.It took weeks, but the results finally came back. He had Addison’s disease. His mother understood that her son would have to deal with this for the rest of his life, but they would figure it out; she knew it could have been much worse.Over the next few weeks, the boy learned about his disease and how to manage it. He wanted his friends and schoolmates to understand his new diagnosis and how it might affect him and require him to take medications. This January, he put together a PowerPoint presentation on his disease. One fact really made an impression on the boy. The 35th president of the United States, John F. Kennedy, had Addison’s. “So you could be president!” his teacher remarked. “And if you do,” he added, “I get to visit the White House.”AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressDENVER — Dropping her kids off at school used to be the hardest part of Kacey Ruegsegger Johnson's day. She would cry most mornings as they left the car, and relied on texted photos from their teachers to make it through the day.Now, the mother of four — and Columbine shooting survivor — sees mornings as an opportunity. She wakes early, makes breakfast and strives to send a clear message before her kids leave home: I adore you. Twenty years after teenage gunmen attacked Columbine High School, Ruegsegger Johnson and other alumni of the Littleton, Colorado, school have become parents. The emotional toll of the shooting that killed 12 classmates and a teacher has been amplified by fears about their own kids' safety , spiking each time yet another shooter enters yet another school."I'm grateful I have the chance to be a mom. I know some of my classmates weren't given that opportunity," Ruegsegger Johnson said, tears springing to her eyes. "There are parts of the world I wish our kids never had to know about. I wish that there would never be a day I had to tell them the things I've been through."As the survivors of Columbine entered adulthood, they watched the attacks at their school and so many others — Virginia Tech, Sandy Hook, Parkland — alter the American classroom.Drills teaching students to "lock down" inside classrooms became routine. Schools formed teams to assess threats, particularly from students. Security firms forged a multibillion-dollar industry, introducing surveillance video, panic buttons and upgraded doors and locks. And police changed their strategies for responding to a gunman intent only on killing.Some of the Columbine survivors find comfort in students being shielded by high fences or locked doors. Others find themselves frustrated by the ready acceptance of active-shooter drills in schools.Now, many of these students-turned-parents grapple with crippling fear dwarfing pride as their children walk into their own schools.Ruegsegger Johnson has developed her own ritual for the school drop-off. On a recent sunny spring morning, she helped her kids find their book bags and tie their shoes before ushering them to the car. She prayed aloud as they neared the school, giving thanks for a beautiful morning and asking for a day of learning and friendship.As always, she made a silent addition: Keep them safe.___The prospect of Amy Over's 13-year-old daughter starting high school could have triggered a panic attack in the not-too-distant past. But now she's focused on helping the girl prepare for the unexpected.She coaches her daughter when she ventures to places outside her mom's control: Where is the closest exit? What street are you on? Who is around you?"I never want my kids to feel an ounce of pain, the way that I felt pain," Over said. "I know that that's something that I can't control. And I think that's hard on me."Over was in the Columbine cafeteria when the gunmen approached the school, targeting students eating lunch outside. She escaped with no physical injuries, but has struggled emotionally for years.Therapy and family support helped. But waving goodbye to her daughter on the first day of preschool triggered a panic attack — the first of many. She was diagnosed with chronic panic disorder, resumed therapy and found new strategies for her life as a mother of two.Over's daughter, Brie, was 11 when her mother first told her about Columbine, a few days before the anniversary. That April 20, they visited the school for a memorial ceremony that included a reading of the names of the 13 people killed. Afterward, the Overs walked together through the quiet school.Here is where she hid in the cafeteria, Amy Over showed her daughter. And that is the staircase where she last saw her basketball coach, Dave Sanders, who died in a classroom awaiting rescue after valiantly trying to help evacuate the school.For Over, opening up to her daughter was cathartic and so they have continued to attend annual memorial events, now imbued with a gentler tone with the girl by her side."It's a day of reflection," Over said. "It's a day of love and hope. And I get to share that with my daughter."___Though it sometimes seems mass shootings inside schools are a commonplace occurrence, they are relatively rare, and statistics show the number has not substantially increased since 2000.But that is of little consolation to a swath of American parents. About 2 in 10 parents said they are not at all or not very confident in their children's safety while at school, while a third of parents are very or extremely confident, according to a March survey by The Associated Press-NORC Center for Public Affairs Research.Austin Eubanks, who survived being shot in the Columbine library, is among those who doesn't fear the schools his sons, ages 13 and 9, attend.Instead, he laments that active-shooter drills, video surveillance and armed guards are all too routine for them — as natural as a tornado drill was for him growing up in Oklahoma."We are so unwilling to actually make meaningful progress on eradicating the issue," said Eubanks, who remains scarred by watching his best friend, Corey DePooter, die. "So we're just going to focus on teaching kids to hide better, regardless of the emotional impact that that bears on their life. To me, that's pretty sad."Isolation, depression, addiction and suicide are among the larger dangers he sees facing his kids' generation, and he knows firsthand the damage those can cause.For more than a decade after the attack, Eubanks was addicted to prescription pain medication. He got sober in 2011 and began repairing his family, including his relationship with his sons and their mother. He works at an addiction treatment facility and travels the country telling his story.At home in Colorado, he tries to help his sons become attuned to pain others may be feeling. He encourages them to talk to an adult when peers seem so angry or afraid that they may need help. He tries to remember that — for them — all of the changes in schools are just normal.He was horrified by videos that Marjory Stoneman Douglas students shot in Parkland, Florida, as they hid inside a classroom while a gunman moved through the halls of the high school. He has urged his own boys to always try to escape first — whatever it takes — even if the drills advise staying put."These are my children, and what I care about most is their safety," he said. "And I know that for them, in a situation like that, getting away from it as quickly as possible is the best likelihood of success."___When Kacey Ruegsegger Johnson's daughter Mallory was 8, a classmate saw her mom on a Denver news station. Mallory had a question: Was her mother famous?Ruegsegger Johnson knew it was time for the conversation she and her husband had anticipated for years. During a family vacation, she pulled her oldest daughter aside for a private talk — the one that finally explained the scars marking Ruegsegger Johnson's right shoulder and why she was unable to reach up toward high shelves or use her right arm to lift the kids.In 1999, Kacey Ruegsegger was reading a magazine in the school library when a teacher entered, shouting that someone had a gun. The junior crouched under a computer desk, pulling a chair in front of her body. She felt well-hidden, but the shooters' taunting voices and the sound of gunshots grew louder and got closer. Then one of the gunmen leaned down and fired a shotgun at her.The blast shredded her right shoulder. She tried not to move or cry out, praying the shooter would believe she was dead and walk away. When the pair left the library, other students helped her flee.For the last 20 years, she has lived with post-traumatic stress disorder, along with physical pain. She worked as a nurse until the injuries to her arm forced her to stop.Ruegsegger Johnson was thrilled to become a mother, but struggled to leave her infant daughter at daycare during church services. She considered home schooling, terrified that sending her children into a school was akin to exposing them to danger.Leaning on her religious faith and family support, she worked hard to push the terror down as her children got older. She avoided media coverage of school violence and became a resource for other survivors of shootings. She grew tired of living in fear and unwilling to let her past affect her kids' experience.Though she still struggles occasionally, she resolved to make mornings before school a positive time, focused on building her children up. And she finds at least some comfort in their school's evacuation plans and security measures. She told her children that lockdown drills were like fire drills — practice to keep them safe from an unlikely danger.But when Mallory confessed to feeling afraid that "a bad person" could still find her in the evacuation location used during one drill, Ruegsegger Johnson flashed back to herself crouched under that computer desk in the Columbine library."The bad guys found me, and I thought I had a really great hiding spot," she said. "So what am I going to say to a little girl who has that same fear that the bad guy might find her? It was a really hard moment for me."AdvertisementSupported by“It is a kind of a new snake oil in the sense that there are a lot of claims and not so much evidence,” said one expert.By Roni Caryn RabinCannabidiol, or CBD, a nonintoxicating component of the marijuana plant, is touted as a magic bullet that eases pain, anxiety, insomnia and depression. Salves, sprays, tinctures and oils containing CBD are marketed as aphrodisiacs that boost desire; as balms for eczema, pimples and hot flashes; and even as treatments for serious diseases like diabetes and multiple sclerosis.Unlike THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol, the “psychoactive” component of the cannabis plant, CBD won’t get you “high.” But scientists know little about what it can do: Most of the information about CBD’s effects in humans is anecdotal or extrapolated from animal studies, and few rigorous trials have been conducted.“It is a kind of a new snake oil in the sense that there are a lot of claims and not so much evidence,” said Dustin Lee, an assistant professor in psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Johns Hopkins University who is planning a human trial of CBD for use in quitting smoking.The Food and Drug Administration has approved some drugs made from synthetic substances similar to THC to treat poor appetite and nausea in people with A.I.D.S. or cancer. But so far, the F.D.A. has approved only one drug containing CBD, Epidiolex, after clinical trials found it reduced seizures in children with two rare, severe forms of epilepsy.“There’s a lot of hype about everything about CBD,” said Dr. Orrin Devinsky, the director of the NYU Langone Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, who led the Epidiolex studies and went out of his way to say the drug’s effect was “not miraculous.” “There is certainly data that it has a variety of anti-inflammatory effects, but whether that translates into improving human health is unknown. Does it help people with eczema, rheumatoid arthritis or ulcerative colitis? We don’t know. There is a good theoretical basis, but the studies have not been done.”The F.D.A. still considers CBD a drug, so it cannot be sold in foods or drinks or as a dietary supplement, and several states and cities — including New York City, California, Maine and Ohio — have ordered restaurants to remove CBD from lattes, smoothies, muffins and other foods. The F.D.A. has issued several warnings to companies that make unproven claims that their CBD products will treat or prevent disease."This deceptive marketing of unproven treatments raises significant public health concerns, as it may keep some patients from accessing appropriate, recognized therapies to treat serious and even fatal diseases,” an F.D.A. spokesman said. Dr. Yasmin Hurd, director of the Addiction Institute at Mount Sinai in New York City and a professor at the Icahn School of Medicine who has done extensive research on CBD, says the compound holds particular potential for the opioid crisis because it appears to reduce heroin cravings in recovering addicts. But, she said, “let’s do the research. It’s crazy that this substance is being consumed by everybody, yet we still don’t know the mechanism of action.”CBD has a relatively good safety profile and is “hands-down safer generally than THC,” the intoxicating component of cannabis, Dr. Hurd said. But it can cause adverse side effects, including sleepiness and diarrhea. Patients in the Epidiolex trials also had more infections and rashes, as well as depressed appetite, sleep problems and elevated liver enzymes.First isolated in 1940, CBD is one of more than 100 biologically active components called cannabinoids that are in the cannabis plant, and it is the second most abundant cannabinoid after THC. Scientists have long known CBD has anticonvulsant and anti-inflammatory effects, but it was not until recent years that CBD got more serious attention from researchers, who initially were more interested in studying cannabis’s psychogenic components, like THC.“You don’t get a high from CBD no matter how much you take,” said  Sumner Burstein, a professor emeritus of biochemistry and molecular pharmacology at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. It is also not addictive, but there is a possibility CBD will interact poorly or interfere with other medications, he said.Studies are now getting underway to evaluate whether CBD can alleviate anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder, or help with substance abuse and tobacco cessation. Leaf Vertical, a biopharmaceutical research company, will explore whether it can enhance cancer therapies. Animal studies suggest its anti-inflammatory effects may have benefits for helping to manage chronic pain or treat arthritis or inflammatory bowel diseases like Crohn’s disease. It is also being looked at for the treatment of autism.GW Pharmaceuticals, which makes Epidiolex, has a multiple sclerosis drug approved in the United Kingdom that combines CBD and THC, and the company is exploring the combination for other therapeutic applications. It is also studying other uses for CBD alone, including for Rett syndrome, a rare genetic disorder that has devastating neurologic consequences in young children.But the combination of CBD and THC may be more effective for some conditions than CBD alone, experts caution. While cannabis has shown promise for treating pain syndromes, for example, it is not clear that CBD alone will be an effective pain reliever. Several researchers said their interest in CBD was piqued by patient inquiries. So many people asked Dr. Michael Van Ameringen, director of an anxiety research center in Hamilton, Ontario, about CBD’s therapeutic potential for anxiety that he decided to review the medical literature, and concluded that “there actually really is very, very little scientific evidence to support its use as a treatment for anxiety at this point.”Some research has reported promising results in other psychiatric applications. Last year, for example, European scientists reported that patients with schizophrenia who were given 1,000 milligrams of CBD in addition to their regular antipsychotic medications experienced fewer hallucinations and racing thoughts compared with those on a placebo. But other studies of schizophrenia have not found the same benefits.One Israeli trial found that people with Crohn’s disease improved when they used cannabis, but a randomized controlled trial of CBD alone found no benefit for patients with treatment-resistant Crohn’s, though investigators said the dose used may have been too low to be effective. Indeed, CBD research is at such an early stage that just figuring out the correct therapeutic dose to test is a challenge, scientists say.Scientists are anticipating easier access to the drug for research since a bill signed late last year removed hemp-derived products like CBD from the list of Schedule 1 controlled substances , and allowed for the cultivation of hemp, which is defined as having less than 0.3 percent THC content. Before passage of that bill, CBD was considered part of the marijuana plant, and researchers in the U.S. were required to have a license in order to possess it, and had to obtain the product from a government-approved source and keep it under lock and key.Still, procuring high quality, uncontaminated CBD for research remains a daunting task, said Dr Lee. of Johns Hopkins.“It might be available at the local 7-11 in Pennsylvania,” said Dr. Lee “but any product you get on the market is not federally regulated by the F.D.A, so the purity and safety and quality are questionable.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Sam RobertsDr. Theodore M. Bayless, whose discoveries helped bring relief to lactose- and gluten-intolerant patients and others coping with the effects of intestinal disorders, died on Feb. 10 in Towson, Md. He was 87.The cause was cancer, his son Neal said.Studies by Dr. Bayless, who taught, conducted research and cared for patients at Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine for a half-century, helped in the development of treatments for acute diarrheal diseases and for inflammatory bowel diseases, including ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease.“While still a young investigator, he made the landmark discovery of the role of lactase deficiency (a genetic defect in the intestinal enzyme that digests milk sugar) in the adverse reactions to milk experienced by hundreds of millions of people all around the globe,” Prof. David Sachar, a friend and colleague and emeritus chief of gastroenterology at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York, said in an email.He added, “His insights into this problem laid the foundations of the lactose-neutralization techniques (such as in Lactaid and many other products) that have revolutionized the dairy industry worldwide.”In 1987, Dr. Bayless received the Franklin Institute’s Corson Award for his research into the genetics behind lactase deficiency. That research resulted in the development of commercial products for people whose bodies rejected milk.His studies also demystified the mechanisms behind celiac disease, or gluten intolerance; provided insight into how genetics and family history lead to the recurrence of inflammatory bowel disease; and distinguished the symptoms of inflammatory bowel disease and irritable bowel syndrome, which may require different treatment.He also found that children whose growth was suppressed by inflammatory bowel disease could resume normal growth through aggressive treatment.Theodore Morris Bayless was born on April 14, 1931, in Atlantic City, the son of David and Fanny (Halpern) Bayless. He worked behind the lunch counter at his father’s pharmacy and sometimes accompanied his uncle, a doctor, on house calls.He graduated from Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Pa., in 1954, the same year he married his classmate, Janet (known as Jaye) Nides. She survives him. In addition to his son Neal, he is also survived by two other sons, Jeffrey and Andrew, and four grandchildren. He lived in Baltimore.Dr. Bayless earned his medical degree from Chicago Medical School in 1957 and completed his internship and residency in New York at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center and what was then the Cornell Division of Bellevue Hospital.He joined the faculty of Johns Hopkins in 1964, becoming a professor of medicine in the division of gastroenterology and hepatology. He was director emeritus of the Meyerhoff Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center.Much of Dr. Bayless’s research focused on ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease, which inflame the bowel and can cause repeated and potentially fatal attacks of diarrhea, constipation, abdominal pain, loss of appetite and weight. Each disease can also lead to arthritis, liver damage, skin lesions, eye damage and painful cankerlike sores in the mouth.AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuAmazon has removed the online listings for two books that claim to contain cures for autism, a move that follows recent efforts by several social media sites to limit the availability of anti-vaccination and other pseudoscientific material.The books, “Healing the Symptoms Known as Autism” and “Fight Autism and Win,” which had previously been listed for sale in Amazon’s marketplace, were not available on Wednesday. The company confirmed that the listings had been removed, but declined to discuss why or whether similar books would be taken down in the future.Several such books were still listed on Wednesday. In an article published this week, Wired UK magazine noted that Amazon is crowded with titles promoting unproven treatments for autism that include “sex, yoga, camel milk, electroconvulsive therapy and veganism.”There is no cure for autism spectrum disorder, but there are medications that can help address associated symptoms like high energy levels and depression, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The agency has found that as many as a third of parents with an autistic child have tried treatments that most pediatricians do not recommend, and that up to 10 percent may be using potentially dangerous tactics.The books that were listed on Amazon were both written more than five years ago and have together generated more than 600 customer reviews.“Healing the Symptoms Known as Autism” recommends that autistic children drink and bathe in chlorine dioxide, a compound often referred to as “Miracle Mineral Solution.” In 2010, the Food and Drug Administration  described it as “a potent bleach used for stripping textiles and industrial water treatment” that “can cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and symptoms of severe dehydration.”Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California, wrote an open letter this month to Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, chiding the company about the failure of its algorithms to “distinguish quality information from misinformation or misleading information.”“As a result, harmful anti-vaccine messages have been able to thrive and spread,” Mr. Schiff wrote. “Every online platform, including Amazon, must act responsibly and ensure that they do not contribute to this growing public health catastrophe.”In a letter to Mr. Schiff on Monday, Amazon’s vice president of public policy, Brian Huseman, said the company’s guidelines “do not specifically address content about vaccines.” Mr. Huseman said Amazon provided customers “with access to a variety of viewpoints, including books and videos that some customers may find objectionable.”Mr. Huseman also said in the letter that Amazon had conducted a review of anti-vaccination books and “found categorizations that were not consistent with our customers’ expectations.” The company, he said, was “actively working to resolve this.”A “small number” of publishers and authors have bought ads to promote books about vaccination, Mr. Huseman wrote, noting that Amazon prohibited “general advertising related to public policy or advocacy issues such as anti-vaccination messaging.”Several other internet companies have said they were taking steps to limit the reach of pseudoscientific health information.Facebook said last week that it would not take down misinformation about vaccines, but would try to make such material harder to find and would stop accepting advertisements that advanced vaccine hoaxes. Many anti-vaccination activists believe vaccines are linked to autism, even though the idea has been widely debunked.AdvertisementSupported byIt fires gay workers, vilifies gay priests and alienates parishioners who can’t make any sense of this.By Frank BruniOpinion ColumnistPat Fitzgerald, 67, has long loved being a Catholic, and the part he loved maybe most of all, for the past quarter-century, was his role as a spiritual mentor at retreats for students at a church-affiliated high school in Indianapolis, where he lives.But he has been told that he’s not wanted anymore. His crime? He publicly supported his daughter, a guidance counselor at the school, after its administrators moved to get rid of her because she’s married to a woman.The school’s treatment of Shelly Fitzgerald, 45, was a big local story last summer that went national; she ended up on “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” in September. It was one of many examples of Catholic institutions deciding almost whimsically to exile longtime employees — not priests or nuns but coaches, teachers, counselors — who had long been known to be gay but were suddenly regarded as liabilities.Maybe they had quietly married their partners, formalizing those relationships and inadvertently drawing attention to themselves. Maybe some homophobic parent or congregant had belatedly learned about them and lodged a complaint. That’s what happened to Shelly Fitzgerald, and her 14 years of fine work at Roncalli High School no longer mattered. Only her 2015 marriage to her longtime partner did. She was told that she could stay on if she dissolved the union. She said no thanks and was kicked off school grounds in August.The aftershocks still complicate the lives — and faith — of people around her: her students, their parents, her dad. On Facebook last month she posted a letter from him to the Roncalli community in which he explained that he’d just been disinvited from future retreats but thanked everyone for being such supportive friends over the years.“Today my heart is broken,” he wrote, adding that the retreats he’d participated in — more than 40 in all — were “the most beautiful and holy settings I have ever witnessed.” He alluded only vaguely to his daughter’s case. “To people on both sides of this ongoing issue,” he wrote, “I hope you can find peace.”[Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Bruni’s exclusive commentary every week. Sign up for his newsletter.]But there’s no peace for the Catholic Church here. It’s too mired in its own hypocrisy. The tension between its official teaching and unofficial practice — between the ignorance of the past and the illumination of the present — grows tauter all the time.Most Catholics support same-sex marriage, in defiance of the church’s formal position, and many parishes fully welcome L.G.B.T. people. Yet there are places, and times, when the hammer comes down.Church leaders know full well that the priesthood would be decimated if closeted gay men were exposed and expelled. Yet the church as a matter of policy bars men with “deep-seated homosexual tendencies” and considers gay people “objectively disordered.”Catholics are supposed to show compassion. Yet Shelly and her dad were shown anything but.She has been on administrative leave since August, and last month her lawyer, David Page, filed a charge of discrimination against the school and the Archdiocese of Indianapolis with the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. It has up to 180 days to respond.On Tuesday morning he showed me paperwork for a second charge of discrimination that he said he would be filing imminently; it cites what happened to her father as an unlawful act of retaliation meant to dissuade Shelly from pressing her case.Pat Fitzgerald, uncomfortable with media attention, declined to speak with me, preferring to let his daughter do the talking. “His struggle comes from caring about Roncalli and being in conflict with what they’ve done to me,” Shelly told me. In October he attended a protest against the church’s treatment of L.G.B.T. people. His sign said, “Please treat my daughter Shelly kindly.”There is, by many accounts, profound anger and hurt at Roncalli. As it happens, Shelly was one of two directors of counseling there; the other, Lynn Starkey, 62, is in a same-sex civil union and in November filed her own charge of discrimination with the E.E.O.C., claiming a “hostile work environment” in the aftermath of Shelly’s departure. For now she remains on the job.Many students started an L.G.B.T. advocacy group, Shelly’s Voice, that also attracted parents and other adults in the community. A related Facebook page, Time to Be a Rebel, has more than 4,500 members. But one parent told me that students who question Shelly’s dismissal fear repercussions. “Seniors are being told that if they speak out, they take the chance of not being able to graduate,” the parent, who spoke with me on condition of anonymity, said.According to posts on the Facebook page, a small cluster of Roncalli students were invited last month to a lunch with Archbishop Charles C. Thompson of Indianapolis, only to have him stress that homosexuality is a disorder and its expression sinful. One student called it an ambush.For comment on all of this, I contacted the Roncalli principal, who referred me to a spokesman for the archdiocese. The spokesman sent me a statement that said that Pat Fitzgerald’s exclusion from student retreats reflected the “continuing attention surrounding his daughter’s suspension” and “his own participation in public protests over Catholic Church teaching.” He was still welcome at Masses, the statement said.In regard to Shelly’s suspension, a past statement from the archdiocese reiterated what the Catholic Church has said in similar cases: Employees of Catholic schools are expected to live in compliance with church teaching. But is that legally enforceable?Shelly’s E.E.O.C. complaint tests where federal civil rights law covers sexual orientation, a matter on which courts in different areas of the country have disagreed. Also, the Catholic Church has attempted to claim a “ministerial exception” from nondiscrimination laws that conflict with religious tenets, but there’s continued dispute about whether this applies to workers, like Shelly, who aren't in the clergy.Shelly pointed out that the Catholic Church isn’t generally going after teachers who flout its rules by using birth control or divorcing or having sexual relations outside marriage. “They’re going after L.G.B.T. people,” she said. “They’re going to die on this hill.”And they’re going to hurt people — like Shawn Aldrich, who attended Roncalli, just as his parents and his wife and her parents did. He has two children there now. What has happened to Shelly astounds him.“She was phenomenal at her job,” Aldrich told me. “So why are we dismissing her?” He knows what church leaders say about homosexuality but noted, “It’s our church, too.” Besides, he said, “All of us are made in God’s image.”He and his wife plan to end their family tradition. They won’t send their third child, now in seventh grade, to Roncalli. “And that breaks our hearts,” he said. “That absolutely breaks our hearts.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSAN DIEGO — A Trump administration regulation set to go into effect Friday bars transgender people from the military unless they "correct those deficiencies," a description the American Medical Association said Thursday is unfair and defies science.  The AMA told The Associated Press on Thursday the policy and its wording mischaracterizes transgender people as having a "deficiency." It said it also objects to the Defense Department classifying the need to transition to another gender among "administratively disqualifying conditions" that include those the Pentagon has labeled as "congenital or developmental defects."The new regulation strips transgender troops of rights they only recently secured under the Obama administration to serve openly and receive care if they choose to transition to another gender.The Defense Department said its use of the words "deficiencies" is military lingo for when an individual fails to meet standards to maintain a lethal force. It is not a reference to gender dysphoria, a condition of extreme distress from not identifying with one's biological gender, Lt. Col. Carla Gleason said.The department says transgender people can serve if they remain in their biological sex."The only thing deficient is any medical science behind this decision," American Medical Association President Dr. Barbara L. McAneny said.Decorated Army helicopter pilot Lindsey Muller was a plaintiff in one of four lawsuits that tried to block the policy from taking effect. But the final legal injunction was lifted in March, though new legal challenges are expected.Muller said she and other transgender troops feel demoralized."Under our ethical standards, we can't say anything derogatory against the administration, while we are being presented in a disparaging and derogatory light," said Muller, 37, who is based in Fort Carson, Colorado.Troops like Muller, who began openly identifying as a woman in 2016, are worried they will be discharged. The administration says it will not boot current service members who transitioned before the Pentagon issued its directive, though the government has also said it retains the right to eliminate that protection.Muller said the policy will cost the armed forces far more in terms of losing experienced personnel like herself and training replacements than any costs associated with specialized health care for trans servicemembers. She plans to retire from the military next year after serving 20 years.Under the new policy, a service member can be discharged based on a diagnosis of gender dysphoria if he or she is "unable or unwilling to adhere to all applicable standards, including the standards associated with his or her biological sex, or seeks transition to another gender."It said the discharge should come after an individual "has been formally counseled on his or her failure to adhere to such standards and has been given an opportunity to correct those deficiencies."The policy calls for troops diagnosed with gender dysphoria to be medically evaluated before discharging them to see if they qualify as having a disability. Otherwise gender dysphoria can be considered a "condition that interferes with military service" like sleep walking, bed wetting, motion sickness, and personality disorders."They can dress it up in whatever words they want, but when you carefully look at this it's total disrespect for these human beings by saying a core piece of them is not acceptable," former acting U.S. Army Surgeon General Gale Pollock said.Pollock signed a statement with three former U.S. surgeons general and two former military surgeons general, saying they are "troubled by the Defense Department's characterization of the need to undergo gender transition as a 'deficiency,' and by the addition of gender dysphoria to official lists of 'congenital or developmental defects' that include bed-wetting and 'disturbances of perception, thinking, emotional control, or behavior.'"An estimated 14,700 troops identify as transgender.Military chiefs testified before Congress last year that they found no problems with transgender troops on morale or unit cohesion. Many have received medals since the armed forces welcomed them in 2016.Transgender troops say the regulation mirrors the "don't ask, don't tell" policy that prohibited gay men and women from serving openly in the armed forces before Congress repealed it in 2010.AdvertisementSupported byBy Amy QinBEIJING — Officials in Shanghai are investigating reports that a Chinese pharmaceutical company may have sold more than 12,000 units of a blood plasma product contaminated with H.I.V., potentially the latest in a series of scandals that have threatened to undermine public trust in China’s medical institutions and health care system.In a statement on its website, the Shanghai Food and Drug Administration said Wednesday night that authorities had ordered the company, Shanghai Xinxing Medicine Company, to begin an emergency recall of the potentially tainted batch of intravenous immunoglobulin, a treatment made from pooled blood plasma that is often used to treat immune disorders, and halt its production.China’s National Health Commission and the State Drug Administration have asked all medical institutions across the country to stop using the units in question and monitor patients who have already been administered the treatment, according to state news media. Officials did not say how many patients had been treated with the blood product.“In the spirit of being highly responsible to the people, the local authorities are responsible for conducting follow-up observations of relevant patients and cooperating with the State Drug Administration,” said a report published Wednesday by Xinhua, China’s official news agency.The presence of H.I.V. antibodies in the treatment was first detected by the Jiangxi Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, in southeast China. A representative of the province’s health commission told The Beijing News on Wednesday morning that, so far, no patients had been found to have been infected with H.I.V. as a result of the treatment.Founded in 2000, Shanghai Xinxing is a subsidiary of China Meheco Group Co., Ltd., a pharmaceutical company based in Beijing whose controlling shareholder is China General Technology Group, a state-owned enterprise directly administered by the central government.Just last month, China’s State Drug Administration revised the health warnings on human immunoglobulin products to note that although plasma treatments are screened for pathogens, they nonetheless derive from human blood and therefore may still pose a minor risk of infection to patients.The investigation into Shanghai Xinxing comes at a delicate time for the ruling Communist Party, which is already seeking to minimize the destabilizing effects of a nationwide economic slowdown. It also represents a setback to President Xi Jinping’s efforts to restore confidence in China’s pharmaceutical industry at a time when the country is pushing to play a bigger role in the global drug industry.Last month, hundreds of angry parents protested against local government officials in a town in eastern China when it was revealed that more than 100 children had received expired polio vaccines. Months earlier, hundreds of thousands of children across China were reportedly injected with faulty vaccines for diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough. After protests by parents, the government imposed a record fine of $1.3 billion on the vaccine maker, Changchun Changsheng Biotechnology Company.But despite years of similar food and medicine scandals, relatively few people have been charged with crimes, fueling frustrations among the public and criticism that the government has not done enough to clean up the industry and enforce regulations.Late on Wednesday night, the National Medical Products Administration released a statement declaring that although the investigation was still ongoing, preliminary results showed that the blood products in question had tested negative for H.I.V. and the hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses.Though the reports about the potentially tainted treatment emerged during the annual Lunar New Year celebrations, when large swaths of the country typically grind to a halt, the news did not go unnoticed.“The cleanup is always fast, pretty soon they’ll say injecting this product is good for your health,” Cui Yongyuan, a Chinese television host and producer, wrote on the microblogging site Sina Weibo, commenting on a report about the investigation’s preliminary results.“Tainted milk powder, no problem. Tainted vaccines, no problem. Tainted inoculations, no problem,” he added. “In short, if a few people die, no problem.”Claire Fu contributed research.Follow Amy Qin on Twitter: @amyyqin.AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen ZraickMost American teenagers — across demographic groups — see depression and anxiety as major problems among their peers, a new survey by the Pew Research Center found.The survey found that 70 percent of teenagers saw mental health as a big issue. Fewer teenagers cited bullying, drug addiction or gangs as major problems; those from low-income households were more likely to do so.The consistency of the responses about mental health issues across gender, race and income lines was striking, said Juliana Horowitz, an associate director of research at the center.The survey also asked respondents if they considered alcohol consumption or teen pregnancy to be major problems among their peers. Half of the teenagers from households earning less than $30,000 said alcohol was a major problem; that number decreased to 43 percent among teenagers in households earning more than $75,000.Teenagers diverged most drastically across income lines on the issue of teen pregnancy. Fifty-five percent of teenagers in lower-income households said it was a major problem among their peers. Just 22 percent of teenagers in wealthier households agreed.The survey of 920 teenagers ages 13 to 17 in the United States was conducted online and by phone in the fall. In their report, the researchers broke down results by income level and gender but not race or ethnicity, citing the small sample size.Some psychologists have tied a growth in mental health issues among teenagers to increased social media use, academic pressure and frightening events like terror attacks and school shootings.Teenagers who grew up in the post-9/11 era, and amid many school shootings, may have anxiety tied to an environment filled with dire warnings about safety, said Philip Kendall, director of the Child and Adolescent Anxiety Disorders Clinic at Temple University in Philadelphia.His center often helps children distinguish between the possible and the probable, to help put anxiety about frightening but rare events in proper context.Another major stressor is constant surveillance by peers on social media, and the “fear of missing out” it can generate, he added. Again, he said, guidance about how to understand social media — for example, a person taking 50 photos to get one perfect image — can help to dispel anxiety.Increased rates of mental health issues could also be tied to better screening practices, noted Lynn Bufka, an associate executive director at the American Psychological Association.But it is still cause for concern, she said. Teenagers are dealing with rapid changes to their bodies, hormones and lives in an era of nonstop information overload, and they need help developing coping strategies.“It becomes really important for the adults around teens to be stable influences in their lives, to give them space for them to talk,” she said.A study released in 2017 found that the number of children and adolescents admitted to children’s hospitals for thoughts of self-harm or suicide had more than doubled from 2008 to 2015, echoing trends in federal data.Dr. Bufka said her top advice for adults worried about teenagers in their lives was simple: Listen, without “pouring on advice” or judging too much, and give them the opportunity to talk to a counselor or psychologist if needed.“Let them know that you’ve got their back,” she said.AdvertisementSupported byTrilobitesResearchers identified hundreds of gene variations that may be connected to when people go to bed.By Veronique GreenwoodEarly to bed and early to rise is a maxim that’s easy to follow for some people, and devilishly hard for others.Now, in a study published Tuesday in Nature Communications, researchers curious about the genetic underpinnings of chronotype — whether you are a morning person, a night owl or somewhere in between — looked at about 700,000 people’s genomes. They identified 351 variations that may be connected to when people go to bed. While these variants are just the beginning of exploring the differences in chronotypes, the study goes on to suggest tantalizing links between chronotype and mental health.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The researchers drew on data from 23andMe, the genetic testing company, and the UK Biobank, which tracks hundreds of thousands of volunteer subjects in Britain, about 85,000 of whom wear activity monitors that record their movements.Those data were key, said Michael Weedon, a bioinformaticist at University of Exeter in England and an author of the new paper; earlier studies had relied only on people’s subjective opinions of whether they were morning people. Using the activity monitors, however, the team was able to confirm that self-reported morning people did go to sleep earlier — and people with the most morning-linked gene variants went to bed 25 minutes earlier than people with the fewest. Morning people did not sleep longer or better than night people; all that differed was the time that they went to sleep.The genes flagged in the study play a wide variety of roles in the body.Many seem to play a role in brain tissues, and others are already known to be central to the body’s circadian rhythm. A few were active mainly in the retina, and the people who possessed an uncommon version of one of these genes had an increased chance of being night owls, said Samuel Jones, a researcher at the University of Exeter and the study’s lead author. That could imply a potential a connection between how the eye responds to sunlight and when a person sleeps.Another gene was involved in the body’s processing of caffeine and nicotine, two of our species’ favorite stimulants. Continued study of these and the other genes could provide leads for future work on the biology of sleep timing.“The most interesting ones are the ones where we don’t know what it is,” said Dr. Weedon.When the researchers crunched the numbers on chronotype’s connection to mental health, they also found that self-identified morning people reported a higher level of general well-being. People in this group also were less likely to report having depression or schizophrenia, in line with epidemiological studies suggesting that evening people struggle with mental health.AdvertisementSupported byBy Dave PhilippsThe Defense Department, after months of litigation and controversy over the issue, is establishing a new policy for transgender troops: They can enlist and serve, but only if they stick to their biological sex. No transitioning allowed.The department issued a memorandum late Tuesday ordering the military to adopt the policy, which will take effect April 12. Under the new rules, troops and recruits can identify as transgender, but must use the uniforms, pronouns, and sleeping and bathroom facilities for their biological sex. They will not be allowed to serve if they have a diagnosis of gender dysphoria, a disorder in which a person’s gender identity does not match their physical gender at birth.The policy exempts transgender troops who have already transitioned or have begun the medical process. Anyone who defies the regulations in the future would be forced out of uniform.Pentagon officials were at pains on Wednesday to insist that the new rules — which already face a number of legal challenges — do not exclude people based on gender identity.“This is not a ban,” a high-ranking defense department official told reporters repeatedly during a background briefing given on the condition that he not be named. Transgender people can still serve, he said, “so long as they adhere to the standards of their biological sex.”Department officials say the new policy ensures equal treatment for all troops. Opponents say it is an attempt to sneak a discriminatory policy past court challenges on constitutional grounds.“It’s baloney — of course it’s a ban,” said Shannon Minter, a lawyer representing transgender service members who have challenged the policy in federal court.The action follows a 2017 announcement by President Trump on Twitter that the “United States Government will not accept or allow” transgender individuals “to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military.”The new policy will accomplish that, Mr. Minter said: “It prevents trans people from serving and will purge the military of transgender service members.”But the Pentagon says that most serving troops won’t be affected. A 2016 survey found that about 9,000 troops identified as transgender, but as of last month, only about 1,000 had begun the formal transitioning process.The official at the briefing said the policy simply added gender dysphoria, which he called “a serious mental condition,” to the long list of pre-existing conditions, from asthma to heel spurs, that would disqualify someone from serving.“Any service member with a medical condition, such as gender dysphoria, has a potential negative impact on force readiness and should be evaluated,” the official said. “All service members, equally, must meet established readiness standards to maintain the effectiveness and lethality of the force.”Transgender people have been allowed to serve openly and transition in the military since a longtime ban was lifted in 2016, and they now serve around the globe. Transgender recruits have been allowed to enlist since the start of 2018. The new policy allows the military to grant waivers to transgender recruits, though the experiences of current recruits suggests that waivers may be difficult to get.With the new policy set to take effect April 12, some transgender troops and recruits are rushing to sign enlistment papers or start the transitioning process before the deadline, according to Navy Lt. Cmdr. Blake Dremann, who heads Sparta, an association of transgender troops that opposes the policy change.“There is a sense of urgency, and we are working very quickly,” Commander Dremann said.After Mr. Trump’s announcement, opponents mounted five separate court challenges, and court injunctions in those cases kept the 2016 policy allowing transgender military service in place.Most have since been lifted. On Wednesday, the Departments of Justice and Defense said the last remaining injunction no longer applied, but Mr. Minter, the plaintiff in that case, has challenged that claim. Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly of the Federal District Court in the District of Columbia has set a deadline of Friday for the government to respond to the challenge, and has not ruled on the status of the injunction.AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON — The Supreme Court heard arguments Wednesday on whether to cut back the power of administrative agencies, a central goal of the conservative legal movement.The issue may seem technical, but there was little question that the justices viewed it as momentous.“This sounds like the greatest judicial power grab since Marbury v. Madison,” Justice Stephen G. Breyer said.He was half-joking, and his comment was greeted by laughter. He quickly added that the Marbury decision, which in 1803 established the basis for the Supreme Court’s power of judicial review, had been “correctly decided.”But Justice Breyer’s remark nonetheless underscored a split on the court over whether to defer to expert agencies or to insist on independent judicial review of their actions.The precise question in the case was whether the court should overrule a pair of decisions that required judges to defer to agencies’ reasonable interpretations of their own ambiguous regulations. The decisions — Bowles v. Seminole Rock & Sand Co. in 1945 and Auer v. Robbins in 1997 — have been the subject of much criticism, and several justices have urged the Supreme Court to revisit them.Justice Elena Kagan, perhaps thinking of other decisions that may be at risk as well, said the court should not lightly overrule its precedents. “We need a good reason for it,” she said, particularly when Congress is free to address the matter. “I mean,” she said, “we used to.”The case, Kisor v. Wilkie, No. 18-15, concerned a regulation of the Department of Veterans Affairs concerning disability benefits. In ruling against James Kisor, who served in Vietnam as a Marine and later received a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder, a federal appeals court relied on the department’s interpretation of one of its regulations.Paul W. Hughes, a lawyer for Mr. Kisor, said that shifting agency interpretations, made without notice to the public or comment from it, were at odds with federal law and fairness.“What happens in cases like this,” he said, “is the regulated public is not able to participate in the underlying lawmaking process that leads to the ultimate rules. And that is not just some speed bump along the administrative process. This matters as a practical matter a great degree.”Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco defended the challenged precedents but only to a point, saying they should be sustained in their “core applications.”That halfhearted defense did not go unnoticed. “There might be a problem of a lack of adversarialness here,” Justice Kagan said.Mr. Francisco said a properly limited version of the challenged precedents would play an important role.“It promotes national uniformity, predictability and political accountability,” he said. “If a rule is subject to multiple reasonable interpretations, the choice of which one to adopt is made by a single more politically accountable agency, rather than in dozens and perhaps hundreds of different district courts across the country.”Justice Neil M. Gorsuch, who has been critical of agency power, appeared unpersuaded, saying that Mr. Francisco’s proposed revised version of judicial deference had too many factors.“As I understand it,” he told Mr. Francisco, “there are six elements of your test. We have to decide whether the regulation is ambiguous, whether the interpretation is reasonable, whether it’s consistent, whether it was made by someone at a high level, whether there was fair notice and whether it was made by somebody with expertise.”“Is that a recipe for stability and predictability in the law,” Justice Gorsuch asked, “or is that a recipe for the opposite?”Justice Gorsuch added that he was inclined to trust judges over bureaucrats.“The one thing you’re going to know is you’re going to have an independent judge decide what the law is in your case, consistent with the statute that says an independent judge shall decide all questions of law,” he said. “That seems to me a significant promise, especially to the least and most vulnerable among us, like the immigrant, like the veteran, who may not be the most popular or able to capture an agency the way many regulated entities can today.”Justice Breyer countered that judges cannot be experts in all things and are not as politically accountable as agency officials. “We know that, democratically speaking, agencies aren’t very democratic,” he said, “but there is some responsibility, and there are one group of people who are still less democratic, and they’re called judges.”Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter @adamliptakAdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Alice BolinSOUNDS LIKE TITANIC A Memoir By Jessica Chiccehitto HindmanAs the Summer of Scam yielded to fall and now winter, we might come to realize, two Fyre Festival documentaries later, that we live in an era (or, indeed, a nation) of scam: We love stories about people with big dreams and minimal credentials, whether they succeed or fail. The truest American heroes are the people to whom Jessica Chiccehitto Hindman dedicates her new memoir, “Sounds Like Titanic”: “those with average talents and above-average desires.”“Sounds Like Titanic” follows Hindman when, as a desperately broke senior at Columbia, she seems to catch a huge break. Despite her only musical training being lessons she took as a child in West Virginia, she is hired to play violin in an ensemble led by a composer who has sold thousands of albums and played at Lincoln Center. She realizes why his staff has overlooked her lack of skill when, onstage with the rest of the ensemble, a deafening CD track begins to play. It is what she calls a “Milli Violini” situation: The audience is in fact listening to a recording.The book jumps between Hindman’s first gigs with the Composer (the only name she gives him), her Appalachian childhood and her travels with the Composer on his “God Bless America Tour” in 2004, when he played a series of concert benefits for PBS stations around the country. Hindman dedicates several sections to the Composer, but all we really learn about him is that he is both shrewd and stupid. He struck gold in the classical contemporary market by blatantly ripping off the “Titanic” soundtrack and taking a direct sales approach, hocking CDs at “live” performances at shopping centers and art fairs. In the end, he may be a true innocent, just like the American mall-goers who buy his CDs. When Hindman plays Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony on their tour bus, he says to her: “I like this music. What is it?”As scams go, the Composer’s is relatively benign — playing to a backing track isn’t illegal — and “Sounds Like Titanic” is not ultimately interested in skewering or exposing him. It is more a memoir of millennial economic ennui, a clever illustration of navigating impostor syndrome and the gig economy, since Hindman literally takes gigs as an impostor violinist. She was a Middle Eastern studies major at Columbia and was studying abroad in Cairo on 9/11. She longs to be a foreign correspondent at a newspaper, but she finds her expertise works against her: “It will be more difficult to make a living by providing accurate information about the Middle East to an American audience than it will be to make a living by fake-playing the violin.”But “Sounds Like Titanic” at times casts Hindman too much as a millennial Everywoman. The weakest parts of the book are when she tries to wring meaning from absurdity, painting her generation or her country with wide strokes. The details she brings out from her gigs across America often fall back on unkind clichés, like her cabdriver with several missing teeth in Nashville who tells her a “you might be a redneck” joke. The broadness of the book’s voice is heightened by Hindman’s choice to write often in the second person. “By 15 your body is begging you for calories,” she writes. “You are losing weight instead, your work ethic turned inward, toward your own flesh.” This “you” generalizes the experience of an eating disorder until it’s trite, a perverse teenage milestone.This is indicative of the problem with creative nonfiction when creative becomes too strong an imperative. The writer dresses up the events in her life with shifts in point of view, lyrical fragments, nonlinear storytelling, parodies, rhapsodies and a brocade of description. Hindman’s stylistic experimentation gives her book an alluring energy but hobbles her narrative. I longed to see how one event led to another in her life, and how the troubles of earlier scenes resonated in later ones. Instead we travel from topic to topic in discrete, sardonic vignettes that culminate in pithy but unsatisfying kickers: a rueful jab at the “national symphony of commerce, the most authentic-sounding American music of all,” or something about the orchestra on the Titanic playing as the ship went down.Alice Bolin is the author of “Dead Girls: Essays on Surviving an American Obsession.”AdvertisementSupported byModern LoveModern Love in miniature, featuring reader-submitted stories of no more than 100 words.We met in the back of a shared Uber. I was coming from a progressive political rally. She was coming from a work happy hour. Tipsy, she moaned longingly at my McFlurry. I asked if she wanted some. She did. We flirted as the passenger in the front seat was dropped off. She asked the driver if she should get out with me. The driver said we lived near each other. We kissed to make sure it was worth it. It was. Eight months later, we can’t get Uber to sponsor our love. Uber? McDonalds? Are you there? Let’s synergize. — Sam BonarMy brother going off to war in Afghanistan — a modern Odysseus — unexpectedly transformed me into Penelope. Just as Penelope wove a never-ending shroud while she waited for her soldier to come home, I developed a new and sudden obsession with knitting, winding yarn around needles to make him an endless stream of impractical and unwanted accessories — scarves, gloves, even a camouflage hat (with pom-poms). Powerless to protect him, I turned the rows of stitches into my rosary: “Come back, come back, come back.” Once he was home I put down my needles, permanently. — Kate SturlaIt was my first wedding with her as my plus-one, and we were first on the dance floor. When the D.J. played “Low” by Flo Rida, I dropped it so low that I split my pants. We went to the women’s bathroom to survey the damage. It was pretty bad. She could see my whole butt, especially when I tried out some dance moves. She’d never worn a thong before, but the situation was dire. So we swapped. I pulled on her full-coverage underwear, she slid on my thong, and we headed back out to dance. — Jessica HackelMy first boyfriend, Howie, was matzo ball soup: warm and homey, wonderful on a cold, wintry day, but not a lot of sex appeal. My previously married ex-husband, John, was leftover Chinese food: so compelling in the refrigerator, but you were always sorry after you ate it. Vinnie, pizza-maker and “transition man,” was a banquet verging on bacchanal: destined to create heartburn but impossible to stop eating. My now and hopefully forever man, Charles, is bran flakes sprinkled with a few Lucky Charms: He keeps me regular and, on most days, is magically delicious. — Jill LiptonWe met on an app. I chose my favorite brewery for our first date. When he ordered only water to drink while I enjoyed a few beers, I prodded. With neither hesitation nor shame, he laid out his demons: four years in recovery from heroin and alcohol addiction. Then I laid out mine: 10 years recovering from eating disorders. Within 15 minutes, we knew all of each other’s ugly parts. We’ve spent the rest of our time together discovering the beautiful ones. — Ally PetrillaSee more Tiny Love Stories at nytimes.com/modernlove.AdvertisementSupported byThe CheckupExperts say opioids are sometimes warranted for kids, in cases like severe burns or major trauma. But doctors should prescribe carefully, and parents should never keep leftovers in the house.By Perri Klass, M.D.In a new survey of more than 1,000 parents by the American Society of Anesthesiologists,  more than half were worried about opioid addiction, but almost two-thirds thought that opioids were the most effective pain medications for a child to take after a fracture or an operation.Experts in pediatric pain want parents to understand that there are effective alternative pain management strategies for many situations, and they should review them carefully with their children’s doctors. Opioid drugs do have a place in pain management, and if used properly, they should not pose a danger of addiction. And publicity around the opioid epidemic should not get in the way of prescribing the most effective drugs to children with serious illnesses and terrible pain.Dr. Linda J. Mason, a professor of anesthesia and pediatrics at Loma Linda University and the president of the society, emphasized that parents should understand that “there are alternatives to opioid pain management” and that they should be asking questions of their children’s doctors. And when children do take opioid medications, Dr. Mason said, parents need to understand how the medicines can be safely stored, and how any leftover doses can be disposed of.“Opioids are very potent relievers of pain, very effective,” Dr. Mason said. “But they have addictive properties, and also side effects, like respiratory depression.” When she takes care of a child having surgery, Dr. Mason said, she may start with opioids and then move on quickly to other drugs.Dr. Elliot J. Krane, professor of anesthesiology and pediatrics at Stanford University and chief of pain management at the Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford, noted that the pain-relieving properties of opium poppy plants were discovered 5,000 years ago, in ancient Mesopotamia. “Why are we still using a 5,000-year-old drug? Because they work,” he said.But they are also drugs with dangerous side effects, including respiratory depression, and they raise serious issues of abuse and addiction.Some studies have shown connections between prescription opioid use in the young and later misuse; Dr. Krane and his colleagues have argued that the data do not support this as a causal relationship, and that the risk of addiction is tied to genetic and psychological vulnerability and not merely exposure. He was a co-author of a 2018 editorial in the journal Pediatrics that called for collecting much more data about the use and misuse of opioids in children.Dr. Krane said that he and his colleagues avoid opioids when there are alternatives, because of concern about side effects. In an email he wrote that, as one of his colleagues says, he is “neither pro-opioid nor anti-opioid, but pro-patient.” He wrote: “A very small percent of my chronic pain patients are prescribed opioids, no more than five to 10 at any time out of many hundreds of children and teens in my patient panel.”But he argued that, based on the data on misuse and addiction, “in the absence of risk factors or concerns about the child’s home environment, I am more concerned about deleterious effects of untreated pain than I am about creating somebody with substance abuse disorder.” And opioid abuse is not an overriding concern, he said, “in children or adolescents who are prescribed them rationally and appropriately.”There is definitely a new onus on doctors to make sure that the prescribing is rational and appropriate, especially around some of the most common situations in which opioids are prescribed, including dental procedures, orthopedic procedures and emergency room visits. Of course, the prescribing doctor should know if a patient may be especially vulnerable to addiction, whether because of warning signs in the family history, psychiatric disease or adolescent experimenting.“Traditionally, oral surgeons tended to be among the highest prescribers of opioids to adolescents,” said Dr. Charles Berde, the founder of the division of pain medicine at Boston Children’s Hospital. With the proactive use of acetaminophen and ibuprofen around the clock, he said, most adolescents who had their wisdom teeth extracted did not need any oxycodone at all. And for those who do, he said, “four pills is enough to cover the great majority of kids.”In the past, Dr. Mason said, children were often prescribed too many pills, which can contribute to the risk of using the medication longer than strictly necessary, and to leftover doses remaining in the medicine cabinet.“You should not keep them for use for a future time,” Dr. Mason said. “These are for a specific surgery,” and any that remain should be disposed of, not left around to be perhaps used by another family member, or found by an exploring toddler — or visiting adolescent. She recommended taking them to a local pharmacy or health center, or to a police station, or else mixing them with dirt or kitty litter before throwing them away.A study published in December in JAMA Pediatrics found a threefold increase in the mortality rate among children and adolescents from opioid poisoning, both by prescription drugs and by illicit drugs, over the past two decades. In addition to deaths among adolescents, the rate increased markedly among children under 4, underscoring the need to store these drugs safely and dispose of any leftover doses.Pediatric orthopedists are looking at whether children need any opioids at all in certain situations, said Dr. Joshua M. Abzug, the director of pediatric orthopedics and deputy surgeon in chief at the University of Maryland Children’s Hospital, who was the co-author of a 2018 review article on managing pediatric orthopedic pain in the setting of the opioid epidemic. And when they do need them, he said, doctors should limit the prescriptions to only the few pills that the child is likely to need.It’s important to start at the preoperative evaluation, Dr. Abzug said, and set expectations with both the child and the parent, acknowledging that the child may have some pain, but it should not be overwhelming, and “we can combat that pain with other medications.”Important strategies for orthopedic surgeries, he said, include long-acting injectable local anesthetics, which can decrease the need of opioids, and multimodal pain relief by mixing different kinds of drugs, such as acetaminophen and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents, like ibuprofen.“If the child does need an opioid, that’s O.K., we don’t want them writhing in pain,” Dr. Abzug said. The child should then shift, as soon as possible, to other medications.And while everyone is profoundly aware of the risks associated with opioids, the most important message of pain management is that pain needs to be managed. “Treating pain adequately helps recovery, reduces the downstream psychiatric and psychological effects,” said Dr. Krane.Not treating pain adequately may cause post-traumatic stress disorder, said Dr. Stefan Friedrichsdorf, the medical director of pain medicine and palliative care at Children’s Minnesota. Opioids are important for children after major surgery, trauma or burns, he said, and certainly for those in palliative care,Parents whose children will need pain control — after an injury, after an operation, after a dental extraction — should ask questions, Dr. Abzug said. Even for injuries like bone fractures, it is often enough to alternate anti-inflammatory medications and acetaminophen.Ask about options, ask about local or regional anesthesia, ask about who will be available if the pain medication — whatever it is — proves insufficient.And after considering all the alternatives, if opioids are necessary, parents need to be vigilant about supervising the dosage, and properly disposing of extra pills.AdvertisementSupported byFidget spinners are so 2017; in 2019, fidget fashion is on the rise By Lauren ParkerEighteen months ago, Alexandra Connell, who has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, introduced the online marketplace Patti & Ricky, which bills itself as “fashion for people of all abilities.” Among the products is a line of “discreet” sliding bead fidget jewelry from Love Dawne aimed at those with A.D.H.D. and anxiety who need a beautiful, socially acceptable way to fidget. The jewelry’s aesthetic becomes the focus of attention, rather than the behavior.“My fidget jewelry helps with my own A.D.H.D. and anxiety, and people who compliment it are always surprised to hear it was designed to serve a purpose,” said Ms. Connell, 31, who has a master’s degree in disability studies from Columbia University Teachers College and lives in Denver. “Then they want to buy one for themselves, because who isn’t anxious these days? Society is moving toward understanding that fidgets can inspire concentration, focus and brainstorming — but you can’t pull out a fidget spinner in a board meeting.”Amy Serwer, who lives in Manhattan and has two children, recognizes what Ms. Connell is talking about. She has two Jennifer Meyer gold-and-diamond initial charm necklaces dedicated to her 10- and 12-year-old daughters, and she wears them together every day. “I’m always fidgeting with these necklaces,” Ms. Serwer said. “They help me focus when I’m stressed out, plus they make me feel closer to my kids.”Retail therapy has a new, more literal, meaning.Fidget spinners may be so 2017, but their explosive sales revealed, in part, our compulsive need for something (anything) to occupy our hands, calm our nerves and focus our thoughts. Especially when we can’t grab our phones. Enter Fidget Fashion: the dangling fringe, reversible sequins, jingly charms and sliding jewelry that is suddenly ubiquitous at brands including Paco Rabanne, Altuzarra, Gucci and Loewe. The pieces are the equivalent of “modern-day worry beads to take your mind off the moment and mentally unwind,” said Ken Downing, the senior vice president and fashion director of Neiman Marcus, who traces the genesis of fidget fashion to the popularity of handbag charms a few years ago.According to Ingrid Wright, a psychotherapist, “fidgets help reduce anxiety, and can almost be compared to a child’s baby blanket.”Johnson Hartig, the founder and designer of Libertine, a label that sells many embellished pieces, said: “With fashion being so fast and images instantly available there is something to say about a tactile interactive garment — it’s comforting somehow.”On the artisanal side, craftier styles with a D.I.Y. bent are on the rise for spring, with designers putting a high-end spin on 1970s-style macramé fringe and rope accessories, all ready-made for fingers to absent-mindedly braid or knot. Philosophy di Lorenzo Serafini, a fashion house in Milan, even added sliding wooden beads on its multistrand rope belts.Leslie J. Ghize, the executive vice president of Tobe, a consumer culture and creative think tank, believes this ratcheting up of fidgety, tactile design serves as a reality check or antidote to the fakeness of the virtual realm. “Even seeing texture and dimension makes people feel closer to the real world,” she said.Yet, one of the results of the boom in fidget fashion and accessories meant to calm our social-media-frenzied minds has been a surge in Boomerang posts and slow-motion videos of people twirling in super-swingy fringe skirts or brushing reverse sequin fabrics and down. A Michael Kors Instagram post of a model spinning in a black sequined dress with sparkly beaded fringe flaring out, for example, has over 175,000 views and 110 comments.AdvertisementSupported byAsk Real EstateMy neighbor’s hygiene issues are affecting my apartment. How do I solve the problem without forcing her out of her home?By Ronda KaysenQ: A rent-stabilized tenant in my co-op building is a hoarder. My apartment is near hers and now, for the first time in 15 years, I have mice and roaches. The board said that the sponsor of the hoarder’s apartment isn’t doing what he should, but if I report the situation to the health department, the building will just get more fines. The mice freak out my wife, the roaches freak me out, and the exterminator says the hoarder is the source of our problems. What can and should we do?A: You and your wife are entitled to live in a sanitary home not overrun with pests. An apartment packed with belongings could pose health and safety hazards for the tenant, the co-op and you. If your neighbor’s hygiene creates a fire hazard or causes foul odors, leaks or vermin infestations, she may be in violation of her lease and could potentially face eviction.Hoarding is a mental disorder, one that often progresses or worsens with time, which might explain why you’re only seeing the mice and roaches now. Because this is a mental-health problem, any solution will include a measure of patience and compassion.“There are city agencies that could be called. There are social services agencies. Sometimes when you employ multiple different remedies at once, all of those things would put pressure on the party to clean up their act,” said Barry G. Margolis, a litigator in the Manhattan office of the law firm Abrams Garfinkel Margolis Bergson. “It’s not a helpless or hopeless situation.”In your case, the co-op board does not have a direct relationship with the hoarder. Instead, the hoarder’s lease is with her landlord, who is a shareholder in the co-op and must comply with the co-op’s rules. The landlord could ultimately take his tenant to housing court if she’s in violation of her lease. But there are less adversarial steps he should take first, like enlisting family members or nonprofit organizations like the Educational Alliance to help.Whatever the course of action, it will only happen if the co-op compels the landlord to do his job. Write letters to the co-op board and the managing agent, providing as much detail as you can about odors and evidence of vermin between the units. The current conditions may violate your warranty of habitability, a state rule. Remind the co-op board of that and urge it to use whatever leverage it has over the landlord to force him to act.As frustrated as you are, calling 311 to report the condition may not get you very far. You’ll antagonize the building, and a violation from the Health Department won’t fix the problem. Instead, contact support agencies like Adult Protective Services, which could appoint a guardian, if it comes to that. If you see any friends or family visiting, ask to speak with them about whether they would be willing to help.AdvertisementSupported byMODERN LOVEModern Love in miniature, featuring reader-submitted stories of no more than 100 words.On Valentine’s Day, there was a sharp pain where there shouldn’t be. It had taken guts to call off my engagement, and that’s exactly what it cost me. “Your colon has to come out,” the doctors said. I wanted to tell them to take my heart too. Two weeks after I discovered my fiancé’s secret addiction, stress worsened my colitis to the point that I needed emergency surgery. My parents slept upright in plastic chairs next to my hospital bed. Mom’s hand moved over mine, and Dad’s body slumped toward the monitor. This is love, this is love, went my heart. — Bethany SalesDowntown Seattle, 1995. Me: at work, feeling hopeless about marriage. On Valentine’s Day! I’m agonizing. Should we split up? Him: on a city bus headed my way to answer that question. Teddy bear: gigantic, almost bigger than us both, sitting next to him. People point, laugh, cajole. Teddy, with red bow tie, was found in store window marked “Not for Sale.” A sad man made generous offer to the store owner, who said, “Yes.” In my office, a man carrying a bear walks in, hands me a Valentine that says: “We cannot bear a future without you. Be ours, forever?” I say, “Yes!” — Diana Petra PerkinsIn November 2013, my husband Jon ran the New York City Marathon. In February 2014, he was hospitalized for a seizure. At 51, he discovered that he had Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a monstrous, degenerative brain disorder. Within a week, Jon lost the ability to move his limbs and speak. But on Valentine’s Day he was still able to hold my hand and form his lips into a kiss. This photo, taken by our son, Henry, captures the final page of our 28-year story, where we felt the warmth of each other’s skin, took in each other’s gaze and began our goodbye. — Joyce Rutter KayeIt was the first time in a long time that I had no Valentine. I expected to be miserable all day, but the opposite occurred. I worked for an industrial hygiene company. We were testing the soil for PCBs at the construction site of the future Pennsylvania Convention Center. I was sitting at my desk, waiting for test results, when a guy named Greg from the lab called. Every time we spoke, Greg said, “Happy Valentine’s Day!” By the third time, I started smiling. We spoke 13 times that day — by the end of which, we had a date. — Catherine PennebakerDuring a Valentine’s Day blizzard, I hired a singing telegram for my girlfriend. The singer arrived far later than planned in a velvet cape and gown that was covered in snow. She sang to us in our living room and then swirled back into the night. We marveled at how she made it to us at all. Twelve years later, I don’t remember what songs she sang, but I remember the feeling of that day: in bed, in love, the thickness of the world outside. Come spring, the snow melted and we split, but I still dream about her. — Amanda BlixSee more Tiny Love Stories at nytimes.com/modernlove.AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephanie Goodman“Black Panther” and “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel” were the big winners Sunday night at a SAG Awards ceremony that spread the bounty among several films and television shows.Chadwick Boseman, speaking for the “Black Panther” cast, which took the SAG equivalent of best picture, said that he was often asked if he expected the Marvel superhero film to be such a blockbuster. (It has earned $1.3 billion globally.) He said the Nina Simone song “To be Young, Gifted and Black” came to mind as he thought about the lack of diversity in most Hollywood films. “We know what it’s like to be told there’s not a screen for you to be featured on,” he continued. But “Black Panther,” he said, meant that “we could be full human beings in the roles that we were playing, that we could create a world that could exemplify a world we wanted to see.”“Mrs. Maisel” swept the comedy honors, including outstanding comedy series ensemble, and best comedy actress and actor for Rachel Brosnahan, who plays the title character, and Tony Shalhoub, who plays her father. “This Is Us,” the NBC melodrama, took best drama series ensemble.There were few overtly political moments Sunday evening, which more often focused on guild issues. Patricia Arquette, named best actress in a mini-series for “Escape at Dannemora,” thanked Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating Russia’s 2016 election interference, as she left the stage. But she drew much more applause from fellow union members when she called out production companies that didn’t pay performers overtime.The SAG lifetime achievement award went to Alan Alda, 82, the veteran actor probably best known for the 1972-83 series “M*A*S*H.” In July, he revealed that he had been living with Parkinson’s disease for more than three years but that he had been leading a full life despite the movement disorder.After being introduced by Tom Hanks, who noted that the actor’s real name is Alphonso D’Abruzzo, Alda took the stage to a lengthy standing ovation from an audience that included his “M*A*S*H” co-star Mike Farrell. “It may never have been more urgent to see the world through another person’s eyes,” he said onstage, his hands trembling. “And when the culture is divided so sharply, actors can help, at least a little, just by doing what we do.”Here is the complete list of winners:Outstanding cast:  “Black Panther”Best actor:  Rami Malek, “Bohemian Rhapsody”Best actress: Glenn Close, “The Wife”Best supporting actor: Mahershala Ali, “Green Book”Best supporting actress: Emily Blunt, “A Quiet Place”Outstanding stunt ensemble: “Black Panther”Outstanding ensemble, drama series:  “This Is Us”Outstanding ensemble, comedy series:  “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel”Best actor, drama series: Jason Bateman, “Ozark”Best actress, drama series:  Sandra Oh, “Killing Eve”Best actor, comedy series:  Tony Shalhoub, “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel”Best actress, comedy series:  Rachel Brosnahan, “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel”Best actor, TV movie or mini-series:  Darren Criss, “The Assassination of Gianni Versace”Best actress, TV movie or mini-series:  Patricia Arquette, “Escape at Dannemora”Outstanding stunt ensemble, comedy or drama series: “Glow”AdvertisementSupported byUptickThis leaf from Southeast Asia is mostly sold at smoke shops, but it’s now being touted as a natural painkiller. By Alex WilliamsThe hype: Kratom, an ancient medicinal leaf from Southeast Asia, is the most recent cure-all to rise from the wellness fringes, particularly among those who frequent head shops for the latest medical breakthroughs. It’s kind of like herbal Valium. Or maybe herbal Tylenol.Elevator pitch: Kratom leaf, which is related to the coffee family, is touted as a plant-based alternative to Big Pharma. Popped in capsule form or prepared as tea, kratom can produce a mild psychotropic effect, though it’s more of a gentle sense of well-being than a so-called trip. Some use kratom as a mood booster, while others say it alleviates chronic pain, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety and depression. It has also been used to treat opioid addiction, though some government authorities say that kratom can be as dangerous as the opioids themselves.Adopters: Despite its smoke-shop association, kratom is not limited to denizens of the Burning Man playa. As the recent Netflix documentary “A Leaf of Faith” makes clear, kratom has struck a chord with many, including war veterans, pain-addled athletes and professional wrestlers, as an alternative to opioid painkillers. Joe Rogan, the libertarian-leaning comedian and longtime commentator for the Ultimate Fighting Championship, has promoted its benefits on his bruh-friendly podcast, the “The Joe Rogan Experience.”Half-life: For centuries, people in Southeast Asian countries like Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand have chewed kratom leaves or made tea from them to chill out, improve productivity during manual labor and tap their inner bliss during religious ceremonies. In the United States, kratom has largely been limited to High Times circles, though grass-roots groups like the American Kratom Association have emerged to combat recent attempts to make the leaf illegal. Just the facts: Given that kratom is an ingestible plant that makes users feel something other than sober, it should come as no surprise that some argue that it is a drug and should be restricted like one. Citing its “high potential for abuse,” the Drug Enforcement Administration is weighing a ban on kratom by classifying it a Schedule 1 drug, like heroin or LSD. A handful of states, including Alabama, Indiana and Wisconsin, have already banned it. Users also seem to be torn. In a 2017 interview, the comedian Margaret Cho said that kratom caused her to have bouts of projectile vomiting. “It’s the weirdest, grossest drug,” she said. On the other hand, Chris Bell, the filmmaker who made “Leaf of Faith,” said that kratom helped him kick his opioid habit. (Mr. Bell is a former competitive powerlifter who used opioids because of the wear and tear on his body.) AdvertisementSupported byToo often, even patients who have coverage can’t afford their medications. By Douglas JacobsDr. Jacobs is an internal medicine resident. When patients enroll in health insurance, they are often met with a stark reality: Even with insurance, they can’t afford their treatment. With the Affordable Care Act and its protections for people with pre-existing conditions in limbo once again, it’s important to remember that those with such conditions need more than health insurance. They also need to be protected from discriminatory pricing so that they can afford the medications they need. In 2015 I published a paper in The New England Journal of Medicine that detailed how some insurers were raising costs for H.I.V. medicines to dissuade H.I.V.-positive people from selecting their plans. Insurers frequently raise the price of certain medicines to encourage people to select cheaper alternatives, but these insurers raised the cost of every single H.I.V. medicine — leaving many enrollees with no affordable options. The difference for someone with a pre-existing condition like H.I.V. was staggering (in some cases more than $10,000 annually for H.I.V. medicines in one plan compared with less than $1,000 in another). This practice was later recognized by the Department of Health and Human Services as a form of discrimination by insurers.Unfortunately, pharmaceutical companies and insurers are still getting away with raising their prices in a way that has a disparate impact on those with pre-existing conditions. A 2019 report by Harvard Law School’s Center for Health Law and Policy Innovation found that some insurers continue to price all recommended H.I.V. regimens in a way that makes them prohibitively expensive. In Georgia, for example, three out of the four insurers place all recommended H.I.V. regimens on the most expensive tiers (costing more than $1,000 a month) or do not cover them at all.As another example, the high price of hepatitis C medicines set by pharmaceutical companies caused many state Medicaid programs to institute discriminatory prior authorization requirements. Those requirements effectively barred people who had a diagnosis of alcohol use disorder and had not refrained from drinking for a specified period of time from treatment — even though we know that hepatitis C medicines are just as successful in people who drink alcohol.In many cases, this administration has made matters worse. With the repeal of the A.C.A.’s individual mandate by the 2017 tax bill, healthy individuals can forgo insurance altogether, causing premiums to rise for everyone else. The Trump administration also made it easier to establish association health plans and short-term plans (often referred to collectively as “junk health plans” because they aren’t required to cover many services). This forces those with pre-existing conditions to either stay in their A.C.A. plan and see their premiums rise as healthy individuals move to junk insurance because it’s cheaper, or sign up for a junk plan and risk extreme charges when services they need are not covered.While some association health plans have received positive press, these kinds of plans are notorious for cherry-picking healthy enrollees and even committing fraud. As for short-term plans, they are simply denying coverage to those with pre-existing conditions altogether. Fortunately, with the shutdown finally over, both sides of Congress are getting to legislating, and an issue that both Republicans and Democrats campaigned on is the protection of those with pre-existing conditions. Safeguarding the A.C.A. — by supporting its existence and by eliminating the threat of junk insurance — is a first step.But protection also means making sure that those who have pre-existing conditions can afford plans that cover the medications they need, which requires instituting policies aimed at both insurers and pharmaceutical companies. After all, what a consumer pays for a medicine is a mix of the price set by a pharmaceutical company, the cost assigned to the drug by the insurer and countless negotiations among pharmaceutical companies, insurers and the pharmacy benefit managers that serve as middlemen.Accordingly, the administration’s announcement to tie Medicare Part B drug prices to an international drug-pricing index should be lauded and expedited. National policymakers should also emulate California, which will band together all state entities into a single purchaser of drugs, adding leverage to efforts to negotiate down drug prices. They could combine federal employee health benefits, Medicare, Medicaid, the Department of Veterans Affairs, Tricare (the health program for uniformed service members) and other public purchasers into the largest single purchaser of drugs our nation has ever seen, one with enormous leverage to reduce drug costs. And with prices lowered, they should require insurers to keep medications affordable.Obviously, protecting the A.C.A. comes first. But to provide meaningful protections to people with pre-existing conditions, we need to go further. Lowering the cost of drugs achieves the same end: access to care for those who need it most.Douglas Jacobs is an internal medicine resident at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Harvard Medical School.AdvertisementSupported byTo the Editor:I enjoyed reading Kevin Powers’s essay “Slaughterhouse-Five at 50” (March 24). As a fellow veteran who has just entered Veterans Administration treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder after 50 years of being “unstuck in time,” I feel a kinship with Billy Pilgrim. I was discharged from the locked ward of a naval hospital in 1968 after going AWOL from the Marines when I returned from Vietnam at 19. Like Kurt Vonnegut, I have raised my children to see beyond the “self-deceptions” and outright lies that keep our war machine in business. And I am also grateful that “Slaughterhouse-Five” is still in print. Vonnegut’s Mrs. O’Hare is right: We were all “just babies in the war.”GERALD MCCARTHY NYACK, N.Y.♦To the Editor:Reading the retrospective view of “Slaughterhouse-Five,” it is worth noting that the Tralfamadorian view of time (being able to see all moments in time at once) is a metaphor for memory. At any time, you can be hurtled by memory into a re-creation of the past: You can be sitting in your armchair and suddenly be jolted by a memory of an event, in this case the destruction of Dresden.DENNIS POUPARD NEW BRIGHTON, MINN.To the Editor:Lynne Olson’s “Madame Fourcade’s Secret War,” as reviewed by Kati Marton (March 17), has brought the heroic activities of Marie-Madeleine Fourcade to the wider audience they deserve. The only woman to lead a Resistance network in occupied France, she was never honored in France’s Pantheon, although two Frenchwomen resisters were belatedly honored in 2015. She headed a British-funded network, taking over a group of 3,000 agents when its leader was captured. Many months later, the British handlers discovered that Agent POZ 55, now its leader, was a woman.Because, then as now, Frenchwomen had been largely absent from early postwar accounts of the Resistance, I undertook research and interviews to write a history of these women’s indispensable contribution.In 1983 and 1984, Fourcade generously shared observations from her extensive espionage experience. One such recollection concerned the Aix-en-Provence jail where Fourcade waited to be handed over to the Gestapo. Fearful of talking under torture, the petite woman took off her clothes and slipped through the bars in what she described to me as a second “birth.”MARGARET COLLINS WEITZ CAMBRIDGE, MASS.The writer is the author of “Sisters in the Resistance: How Women Fought to Free France, 1940-1945.”♦To the Editor:At the end of her review of “Madame Fourcade’s Secret War,” Kati Marton uses the phrase “France, slow to confront the stain of Vichy.” These words might better have been placed at the beginning, since the reviewer thus raises a crucial question fundamental to the function of the many books that herald individual heroism in the context of the German occupation of France.Indeed, one might have expected Marton, who has written of her experience as a victim of anti-Semitism in Hungary, to have understood the unstated connection of these works with the attempt to whitewash or avoid mention of the stain of Vichy. No one wants to talk about it.I do not dispute the heroism displayed by Madame Fourcade or the many others whose stories have lifted our spirits, nor the reality of the Resistance. I do say that these stories unwittingly enable a disavowal of the turpitude to which France sank at that time. They invite us to collaborate in another endeavor, the avoidance of a sense of shame.JEREMY R. MACK, M.D. NEW YORKThe writer is the author of “Phantoms of the Hotel Meurice: A Guide to the Holocaust in Paris.”To the Editor:Thanks to Seymour Chwast’s Sketchbook (March 24), my mental image of some of literature’s most prominent characters has been ruined. How shall I ever read “The Great Gatsby” without seeing a middle-aged gigolo who vaguely resembles Noël Coward with a mustache? Or the Wife of Bath, who looks like she belongs on the stage at the Grand Ole Opry? Or Moll Flanders, a zaftig Lillian Gish batting her eyelids? Or Hester Prynne, whose scarlet “A” surely means “Addlepated”? And, perhaps worst of all, a Captain Ahab straight out of “The Simpsons”?J.R. SOLONCHE BLOOMING GROVE, N.Y.To the Editor:I must take issue with Alec MacGillis’s portrayal of Cleveland in his review of Kyle Swenson’s “Good Kids, Bad City: A Story of Race and Wrongful Conviction in America” (March 10). While persistent problems remain, Cleveland has also been experiencing a vibrant urban renaissance. And while The Plain Dealer has indeed suffered severe cutbacks, it still manages to publish excellent reporting.KAREN TUCKER MORELAND HILLS, OHIOAdvertisementSupported byBuilding a border wall won’t solve our immigration problem.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistThe debate around a border wall and immigration has become so distorted by President Trump’s superheated nonsense — we must build a wall to keep out all these rapists and murderers, and Mexico will pay for it — that we’ve forgotten what it would sound like if we actually had a president framing the real border issue in a really honest way to come up with a real solution — not just one to energize his base.Unfortunately, we have a president who wants to spend $5.7 billion on a wall to fix his political problems with Rush Limbaugh, Ann Coulter and Laura Ingraham. When what we need is a president who wants to spend $5.7 on a multipronged strategy that will address the actual immigration challenge we face.Here is how a real president would explain it: My fellow Americans, we face a global crisis: More people are on the move today seeking jobs, asylum from murderous governments, safety from environmental disasters or just looking for order than at any time since World War II — some 70 million people.Why now? Answer: During the late 19th and the 20th centuries the world shifted from being governed by large empires in many regions to being governed by independent nation-states. And the 50 years after World II were a great time to be a weak little nation-state — for several reasons.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]First, because there were two superpowers competing for your affection by throwing foreign aid at you, building your army, buying your cheap goods and educating your kids at their universities. Second, climate change was moderate. Third, populations were still under control in the developing world. Fourth, no one had a cellphone to easily organize movements against your government or even see what Paris or Phoenix looked like. Fifth, China was not in the World Trade Organization, so every poor country could be in textiles and other low-wage industries.All of those advantages disappeared in the early 21st century. Climate-driven extreme weather — floods, droughts, record-setting heat and cold — on top of man-made deforestation began to hammer many countries, especially their small-scale farmers. Developing-world populations exploded thanks to improved health care. Africa went from 140 million people in 1900 to one billion in 2010 to a projected 2.5 billion by 2050. The same surge happened in Central America, in countries like Guatemala.Meanwhile, the smartphone enabled citizens to easily compare their living standards with Paris or Phoenix — and find a human trafficker app to take them there. Also, China joined the W.T.O., gobbling up low-wage industries, and the end of the Cold War meant no superpower wanted to touch your country, because all it would win was a bill.The result: It’s much harder to be a weak country today, and the weakest of them are starting to fail or fracture and hemorrhage their people. That’s Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador and Venezuela in our hemisphere and Sudan, Syria, Afghanistan, Libya and many countries in sub-Saharan Africa across the Atlantic.This is creating wide zones of “disorder” — and the biggest geopolitical trend in the world is all the people trying to get out of zones of disorder into the world of order. And that is what’s creating all the populist, nationalist, anti-immigrant backlashes in the world of order — particularly in America and Europe.That is the real context for this immigration crisis. What’s the answer? Well, if you look at what slowed the flood of single Mexican men illegally and legally coming to America in the last decade, it was the combination of greater economic opportunity in Mexico, thanks in part to Nafta, plus slower population growth in Mexico, plus improved governance in Mexico, plus better border security along the Mexico-U.S. border.That same formula has to be applied now to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador. They have become the primary source of all those migrants and caravans coming to America today, including 187,000 minors without adult guardians, who were picked up by the U.S. Border Patrol between 2014 and 2018. Their parents sent them our way to connect with relatives already here or to be shielded from forced gang recruitment and violence.A report last June by the Council on Foreign Relations noted, “In 2015, the latest year for which data is available, as many as 3.4 million people born in El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras were living in the United States, more than double the estimated 1.5 million people in 2000.” Because of rampant corruption and gang warfare, Salvadorans, Hondurans and Guatemalans each year pay an estimated total of $651 million in extortion to organized crime groups. These gangs, like MS-13, exploded in Central America in the mid-1990s “following large-scale deportations from the United States of undocumented immigrants with criminal records.”That’s why, among other things, a smart U.S. immigration policy would promote family planning in rural areas in Central America. Letting America’s religious right limit U.S. family planning assistance abroad is stupid. The only thing more stupid is not working to mitigate climate change, which Trump refuses to do. Extreme weather has been disrupting small-scale farming in Central America. And when small-scale farming weakens or collapses, people leave the countryside and flock to the city. And if they find high unemployment and high crime rates there, they head to America.At the same time, we need an investment shock by local and foreign companies and governments to build infrastructure, tourism and trade in Central America so more people can thrive there, especially when 61 percent of the population is under 29 years of age.Alas, though, investment rates average just 12 percent of G.D.P. in Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, while in Mexico it’s 26 percent.Yes, both legal and illegal immigrants actually contribute, on balance, to American growth, but there is no question that border security, asylum courts, resettlement and absorption facilities put pressure on federal, state and local governments. But …The U.S. could spend millions of dollars to help stabilize Central American countries — so that more of their citizens could stay home, which most immigrants prefer — and we’d still save money and reduce illegal immigration. It costs us anywhere from $14,000 to $38,000 to detain and deport a single migrant.Finally, we also need fences, drones and sensors to strengthen the border in places. But rather than building a $5.7 billion wall against Mexico, what we need most is to help Mexico improve its capacity to intercept migrants at its southern border with Guatemala — where all Central American migrants headed north have to pass. It’s not that hard. There are only two main roads out of Guatemala to the north, with a mountain in the middle. It’s called Mexico’s “Tehuantepec isthmus bottleneck.”If we worked with Mexico to create better entry-point infrastructure there with biometric controls and improved ability to inspect vehicles, people and merchandise to stop smugglers — and even interview potential asylum seekers there — we would significantly reduce the numbers coming out of Central America, crossing Mexico and piling up at our border.In sum, we need a plan that creates a wall, not a wall that substitutes for a plan. That’s what a real president would offer. If only we had one.But have no illusions: More weak nation-states will be imploding under these pressures in the coming decade and no empire is going to impose order there; those days are long gone. But many of these states simply cannot effectively govern themselves any longer. (Heck, Britain can’t effectively govern itself any longer!)So how the world of order collaborates to bring order to more and more of these places — Italy has basically created and funded the Libyan Coast Guard to protect itself from migrants crossing the Mediterranean — is going to become one of the biggest governing challenges of this century.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Martin Selsoe SorensenCOPENHAGEN — Describing his work as an undercover agent among a group of heavily armed Qaeda terrorists, Morten Storm said his job as a jihadist-turned-informant was dangerous and grueling.Spy agencies never acknowledged his secret service. But now a Danish state agency, in a breakthrough ruling for Mr. Storm, has awarded him about $27,000 in damages for loss of work ability because of post-traumatic stress disorder, which he said in his claim was a result of his undercover role for the Danish and other intelligence agencies.Labour Market Insurance, a state body, concluded that he had experienced “exceptionally dangerous events” during his tenure, the newspaper Jyllands-Posten reported on Monday. A future review will decide to what extent he may still be able to work, and could award additional compensation.The payout is, in effect, the first formal recognition by the government of his undercover work; it has never been acknowledged by the Danish Security and Intelligence Service, PET, or by other Western intelligence agencies, which generally refuse to comment on secret sources.Hans Jorgen Bonnichsen, a former chief of operations of the Danish intelligence service, said he was stunned when he heard of the decision to compensate Mr. Storm. Agencies that conduct their work in secret are put in a tough spot when former operatives talk publicly about their work, Mr. Bonnichsen said, but the intelligence service usually maintained its silence “until hell freezes over” to protect its current employees.Mr. Storm’s lawyer said the compensation case was “a little peculiar,” though he said the size of the initial award was fairly standard. Mr. Storm had no pay slip or contract to show for his work, and PET refused to submit any corroboration.“In regular work-damage cases both the injured and the employer offer information, but PET chose to be completely silent,” said the lawyer, Brian Bruun Hansen.In an email message, a PET press officer said the agency “generally does not confirm or deny whether a person is working or has worked as a source.”Instead of documents proving his relationship with state intelligence agents, Mr. Storm submitted voice recordings and proof of Western Union money transfers that included the names of PET operatives. His past claims about his undercover work have been taken seriously by the international news media and by Atlantic Monthly Press, which published his 2014 memoir, “Agent Storm: My Life Inside Al Qaeda and the C.I.A.” A New York Times review called his account “highly credible.”Before he joined with militant Islamists, Mr. Storm, now 43, was an armed robber and, at 21, a prospective member of a criminal biker gang. In 1997, in his early 20s, he converted to Islam and moved first to Britain, and then to Yemen to learn Arabic. There, he befriended senior members of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.In 2006, according to his account, he lost faith in jihadism and turned on his terrorist comrades to become an informer for the Danish intelligence service, as well as for agencies in Britain and the United States.Mr. Storm claims that information he provided helped lead to the drone killing of the American cleric and Qaeda recruiter Anwar al-Awlaki in Yemen in 2011 and also to the arrest that year of Ahmed Abdulkadir Warsame, a Somali aiding Al Shabab, a terrorist group in Somalia, and Al Qaeda in Yemen. His claims have never been publicly confirmed by the C.I.A.In 2012, Mr. Storm broke with PET and started speaking to the news media.He said he had worked directly with American and Danish agents and received monthly payments, but never rewards or help to restart his life — a source of great resentment to him.Mr. Storm is apparently now hiding in a village in Denmark, saying he is fearful of his former comrades in the jihadist network who have threatened him online. In 2018, four people were convicted of threatening him on a Danish beach during a trip with his three children.It was the strains of a dangerous double life, Mr. Storm said, that led to his PTSD. Today, he says, simple grocery shopping in the Danish countryside causes him fear.“At night, I scream and kick,” he said in a telephone interview. “Just talking about it now makes me uneasy.”AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders discuss how some women have been charged with crimes as the concept of fetal personhood takes hold.To the Editor:Re “A Woman’s Rights” (editorial series, nytimes.com, Dec. 28):It’s complex. Are you arguing that an infant one day after delivery is fundamentally different developmentally from a fetus one day before delivery? This is what I inferred from “fully formed person” versus a “fetus in the womb.” Whether, and under what circumstances, a fetus should have rights is a good question. Are you arguing that “never” is the right legal answer? I’m not so sure that I agree. When I am pregnant, I’m the custodian of another human life, just as I am when I take that baby home from the hospital. These personal stories invite outrage, which is exactly what we don’t need more of right now. You at least state that the situations described are rare. We, rightly in my opinion, criticize President Trump for doing this exact thing when he gets the conservative base all riled up with a story about an immigrant who committed a felony.The idea that abortion should be safe, legal and rare appears to be out of vogue with the very liberal, but it’s still my opinion. And I think that it is shared by many. Carol PowersPortland, Ore.To the Editor:The absurdity of prosecuting a frightened, often grieving mother for disposing of her fetal remains incorrectly seems patently absurd. How far do we carry this? Is a woman who miscarries early responsible for fishing her small, sometimes hard-to-identify embryo out of a blood-filled toilet bowl before flushing? Where do we draw the line?Instead of arresting these women, we should help them restructure their often chaotic lives and offer the support they badly need. Almost no woman losing an advanced pregnancy could possibly have a clear, logical mind; pain, grief and panic distort reality.Shame on those who further deepen these women’s anguish with purposeless incarceration.Jessica JacobManhasset, N.Y.The writer is an obstetrician-gynecologist at North Shore University Hospital.To the Editor:In “A Woman’s Rights” you write that “it is likely only a matter of time before women’s reproductive rights are ratcheted back” and then raise the possibility that the Supreme Court rules “that the fetus has ‘personhood’ rights under the Constitution,” making all abortions illegal.What undergirds the “personhood” claim, as well as the anti-abortion position in general, is a fundamental religious belief among some people that at the moment of conception a soul has been implanted in that fertilized human egg, providing the possibility not only of life on this Earth, but also, of vastly greater importance, eternal life with God.I understand why those who hold that belief would wish to invest the zygote, embryo and then fetus with “personhood,” while working assiduously to conceal the religious tenets that undergird their quest. But the First Amendment of the Constitution clearly reads, “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”It would seem that laws prohibiting abortion that are clearly based on a set of religious beliefs not only violate the Establishment Clause but also prevent other women from the “free exercise” of their religious beliefs, and must be viewed as unconstitutional. If this does not hold, then how slippery is the road to theocracy?Arthur SalzKew Gardens, QueensTo the Editor:It’s hard to take seriously the cognitive dissonance in “A Woman’s Rights.” The editorial board tries to foster sympathy for the profound loss of a miscarriage while also arguing, in essence, that the law should treat unborn children as worthless, disposable nonentities.It is certainly possible to empathize with the women in this series. It is also within reason to interpret these cases as outliers, as misapplication or overprosecution of the law. As such, it is disingenuous to suggest that fetal endangerment laws and limitations on late-term abortion pose a legitimate threat to women when so few cases can be identified.Also exaggerated is the claim that fetal endangerment laws might be applied to “fertilized eggs.” This would be a waste of resources as it is nearly impossible to discern whether the loss of life in early pregnancy is because of spontaneous or procured abortion.Sarah MullenWest Irondequoit, N.Y.The writer is on the board of Feminists Choosing Life of New York. To the Editor:Thank you for your thoughtful editorial series “A Woman’s Rights.” As an obstetrician-gynecologist practicing in a county hospital, I can say that the stories you shared — particularly that of Kasey Dischman, a young woman with a substance use disorder — remind me of many patients I have cared for and cannot forget.Unfortunately, racist biases and now debunked myths, like the belief that addiction is just a moral failing or “that crack-addicted black mothers in inner cities were giving birth to a generation of damaged and possibly vicious children,” continue to pervade our society — even the supposedly evidence-based medical profession. With all that medical schools have to teach, there is no opportunity for critical appraisal of the preconceived notions that we all enter the medical field with.As a young doctor, I held erroneous assumptions about “what is best” for a newborn of a woman addicted to substances. It’s not until we revisit our frightening history — the systems that perpetuate poverty and prevent those with substance use disorders from accessing the health care and substance treatment they need — that we might question those assumptions, and then truly do right by pregnant women and their children.Elissa SerapioSan FranciscoThe writer is a fellow with Physicians for Reproductive Health.To the Editor:“A Woman’s Rights” illuminated a disturbing trend similar to that found in Latin America and the Caribbean, where the United States has a significant political and economic influence. About 97 percent of women in the region live in countries where abortion is restricted or outlawed, and in countries like El Salvador, women are incarcerated for enduring stillbirths. Compounding these draconian laws is the fact that 24 million women in the region have an unmet need for contraception.Conservative politicians and a thriving evangelical movement continue to maintain the power of the state to control women’s bodies through criminal law in those countries. However, scientific data demonstrates that restrictive laws don’t decrease the incidence of abortion: They just drive the procedure underground and threaten women’s lives, particularly those of young and poor women.Despite efforts to govern women’s bodies, women worldwide are mobilizing to demand an end to reproductive coercion, resulting in victories in countries like Chile and Ireland. These are the voices that should prevail.Giselle CarinoDebora DinizMs. Carino is the chief executive and regional director and Ms. Diniz is the deputy director of International Planned Parenthood Federation, Western Hemisphere Region. To the Editor:Stillbirth was criminalized in early 17th-century England when the authorities needed a way to convict prostitutes who had babies in secret that they claimed were stillborn. They passed a law requiring that a midwife be present at the birth to testify to the baby’s viability. Massachusetts followed suit. Mothers whose babies died without witnesses were assumed to have committed infanticide. In 1693, Betty Emerson of Haverhill, Mass., was hanged for the murder of twin infants she had conceived with her married lover and given birth to privately. After spending time in jail protesting her innocence, she confessed to the relentless Cotton Mather. Mather preached a sermon citing Betty, the sinner, before she was hanged on Boston Common.AdvertisementSupported byBy Neil GenzlingerBrody Stevens, a jarring comic who turned his own struggles with depression into a Comedy Central television series, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 48.The Los Angeles County medical examiner-coroner’s office ruled the death a suicide.Mr. Stevens was well known in the stand-up world, especially on the West Coast, as well as to studio audiences of shows like “Chelsea Lately” and “The Burn With Jeff Ross.” For those shows he was the warm-up comedian, whose job was to get the audience in a laughing mood before taping began.His stand-up style was a seemingly contradictory mix of confrontation and self-deprecation. He would often mock the fact that he was not a household name and had managed to land only small parts in television shows and movies.“I was in the ‘Hangovers,’ ” he joked in a favorite routine. “‘Hangover 1’: In it. ‘Hangover 2’: In it. ‘Due Date’: In it. ‘Funny People’: I got cut out of that.”Onstage he raced quickly through a wide array of subject matter, going deeper and darker than comfort-food comedians. When his audiences responded with nervous half-laughs or silence, he would turn on them with something on the edge of genuine hostility.“You should be giving me laughs based on cadence alone” was one of his favorite lines for berating a crowd. “I scratch your back, you shave mine.”He was widely admired by other comedians for his willingness to venture into unsafe territory.“Brody never seems like he’s doing material at all,” Sarah Silverman once said. “He’s just yelling.”She gave that assessment in the premiere episode of “Brody Stevens: Enjoy It!,” a biographical documentary series (based on an earlier HBO web series) broadcast on Comedy Central in 2013 and 2014. Among the things it examined was a disturbing period in which Mr. Stevens stopped taking his anti-anxiety medications and went on a days-long sleep-deprived rant, much of it blasted in a stream of Twitter messages and videos. The behavior so alarmed his friends — especially when he tweeted that he had a gun — that they called the authorities, and Mr. Stevens was committed for psychiatric treatment.“They diagnosed me here at the U.C.L.A. psych ward with a bipolar disorder,” he said in Episode 2 of “Enjoy It!”“I don’t want it to make who I am,” he added, “ ‘I’m the guy who had this breakdown.’ But I’ll talk about it, and be real, learn from it, help others learn from it, and then move on.”Mr. Stevens was born Steven James Brody to Harold and Jackie Brody on May 22, 1970, in California’s San Fernando Valley. His parents divorced when he was young.He played baseball at Reseda High School and received a scholarship to Arizona State University, where he was a pitcher. His love of baseball continued past his playing days, and he was a frequent visitor to spring training camps.He honed his stand-up skills in Seattle, where he also had a public-access TV show, then returned to the Los Angeles area. The actor and producer Zach Galifianakis became a close friend and, with Mike Gibbons, created “Enjoy It!,” which ran for 12 episodes. Another theme of that show was Mr. Stevens’s strained relationship with his sister, Stephanie.Information on his survivors was not immediately available.Mr. Stevens, who in recent years went by the name Steven Brody Stevens, also hosted audio and video podcasts. On Twitter, the comedian John Roy recalled an industry show in which a number of comics performed for hard-to-amuse agents. The crowd, he said, was comatose until Mr. Stevens took the stage and virtually demanded laughs, finally loosening things up.AdvertisementSupported byThough the wealthy tend to be healthier and fill fewer prescriptions over all, they’re likelier to purchase medications for some serious diseases. By Kevin Quealy and Margot Sanger-KatzThere are many, many things that rich people buy in larger quantities. It turns out medications for certain serious diseases may be one of them.A new analysis has found that, for some types of medications, income is a pretty strong predictor of how often someone is picking up a drug to treat an ailment.The analysis, by GoodRx, a company that tracks prescription drug prices, looked at how often residents of different neighborhoods filled prescriptions for different categories of drugs.Patients in wealthier neighborhoods were much more likely to pick up prescriptions for lifestyle problems: erectile dysfunction, baldness, anti-wrinkle Botox injections and an eye medicine that thickens eyelashes. This may be unsurprising. But the analysis also showed that richer patients were more likely to buy drugs for certain serious conditions, including mental health disorders. This was the case even though the analysis showed that income doesn’t track with overall prescription use. These prescriptions for serious conditions were filled disproportionately in rich neighborhoods despite evidence that the rich tend to be in overall better health. In fact, people in rich neighborhoods filled fewer prescriptions than people in middle-class neighborhoods. The blend of data suggests that, while prescriptions and income don’t track well over all, there are points where they do.The relationship between income and prescription drug purchasing is more complicated than whether someone has money to spend at the pharmacy. Depending on income and life circumstances, Americans may have different odds of developing certain illnesses and of seeking treatment — even before the direct cost of medicines becomes an issue.“There are definitely a bunch of financial barriers before you even get to the point of getting to fill a drug,” said Stacie B. Dusetzina, an associate professor of health policy at Vanderbilt University. She said social and cultural factors could matter, too: Evidence has shown that doctors are less likely to prescribe pain medicines to black patients than white ones, for example. Niteesh Choudhry, a professor of medicine and public health at Harvard, said that his research hadn’t shown a clear relationship between income and prescription drug use. Instead, he said, cultural and racial factors — and the details of insurance coverage — were better predictors. When it comes to treatments for very common conditions, “the income relationships are probably not linear,” he said.Several experts in the demographics of drug use said all those factors might explain the higher usage of medications for mental health problems among wealthier people. Some mental health problems are more prevalent among Americans with lower incomes, evidence shows. But longtime holes in the health care system mean that richer patients are more likely to have private insurance or extra money to pay for psychiatric care that is not covered by insurance. And some people in lower-income communities may feel more stigma around mental health diagnoses. A similar dynamic could explain lower prescription rates for birth control among lower-income women. Under Obamacare, all women with health insurance should be able to get contraception with no co-payment. So cost at the pharmacy counter can’t alone explain the differences. But higher-income women may be more likely to have a regular doctor to prescribe pills. (The data shows that emergency contraceptive purchases, also available without co-payment, were more common in lower-income neighborhoods.) The high cost of EpiPens alone may explain some of the differences in usage. Current guidance is for patients to stock several of the devices, used to treat life-threatening allergic reactions, and replace them often. But their high cost may lead some poorer patients to make do with fewer or older ones, while those with more disposable income might stock extras.Some drugs seem to be taken about equally regardless of income. The use of antibiotics appears to be roughly the same for middle-class and rich Americans. These drugs are used for some serious diseases, have few over-the-counter substitutes, and tend to be inexpensive.Some drugs are much more commonly used at the low end of the income scale. Consider treatments for hepatitis C and H.I.V. These are diseases that disproportionately affect low-income Americans, and that pattern is reflected in the prescription purchasing patterns.The GoodRx data looked at a sample of 53 million retail pharmacy purchases in 39 large metropolitan areas over a year ending in October 2018, then divided them according to the income characteristics of the people who lived in the census tract where the pharmacy was located.This is not exactly the same as tracking individual customers by income, but most people buy drugs at pharmacies near their homes. The data includes drug purchases by people with both public and private health insurance, and by some customers who buy their medications using cash. Analysts at GoodRx then grouped drugs prescribed for various diagnoses to build categories. They also made some adjustments to the data in cases where the sample overrepresented one kind of insurance.AdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia MazzeiMIAMI — A student at the Florida high school where 17 people were killed in a mass shooting last year apparently took his own life on Saturday, the police said. It was the second apparent suicide in the span of a week involving a student survivor of the shooting in Parkland, a community still reeling from the aftermath of the massacre.Officers in Coral Springs, Fla., responded Saturday night to the apparent suicide of a minor who attended Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Officer Tyler Reik, a police spokesman, confirmed on Sunday. He said the death was still under investigation.Ryan Petty, who lost his daughter Alaina during the massacre at Stoneman Douglas on Feb. 14, 2018, said the child who died on Saturday was a 16-year-old boy. Mr. Petty alluded to the boy’s death in a Twitter post late Saturday, in which he wrote “17+2” with an emoji of a broken heart.“What we feared could happen is happening,” Mr. Petty said in an interview.The foundation that he created in his daughter’s memory held an event last May trying to raise awareness about suicide prevention.Another teenager, Sydney Aiello, 19, a recent Stoneman Douglas graduate, took her own life last weekend, her mother Cara Aiello told the local CBS television affiliate. Ms. Aiello told the station that her daughter had received a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder, and that Sydney suffered from survivor’s guilt after the shooting, in which one of her best friends, Meadow Pollack, had died.News of Sydney Aiello’s death spread quickly, drawing tens of thousands of dollars to a web page for donations for the young woman’s funeral and memorial. It also started a discussion in Parkland — more than a year after the shooting — about preventing suicide and offering long-term resources to young people who have continued to struggle to cope with their trauma and loss.Sunday marked the anniversary of the March For Our Lives that students organized around the world to rally against gun violence following the horror in Parkland.Public officials met on Sunday afternoon to discuss a unified effort to assist children and families in light of the two apparent suicides. They identified several locations to offer therapeutic services or information about how to obtain them.“It’s important that the community knows right now how to triage this — to make sure they’re checking in with their kids, checking in with their family members,” said Mayor Christine Hunschofsky of Parkland. “It’s important, if people have firearms at home, that they’re locked up and secured, so no one who shouldn’t have access to them is able to gain access to them.”Dr. Kelly Posner Gerstenhaber, a psychiatry professor at Columbia University who helped lead a suicide prevention event in Parkland last year, has developed a protocol of questions that anyone — not just medical professionals — can ask to identify people who may be at risk of suicide. Suicide is preventable, she emphasized, but it requires ending the stigma surrounding depression and mental illness, and not waiting for people who are hurting to speak up on their own.“They don’t necessarily have the will to come and ask for help,” Dr. Posner said. “We should be asking these questions the way we monitor blood pressure.”The Broward County Public Schools brought in counselors and therapy dogs for Stoneman Douglas students immediately after the shooting last year. But those crisis services were insufficient for some students and teachers, who sought additional help on their own.At the start of the 2018-2019 school year last fall, the school district advertised the continuing operation of a “resiliency center” at a park in Parkland, with counselors and support groups for families. That center remains open, including this week, when the local public schools will be closed for spring break.The year since the mass shooting has been tumultuous. The community has grappled with how to hold public officials accountable for the slew of missed warning signs displayed before the attack by the gunman, who is awaiting trial for capital murder. Just last week, the school district placed the principal of Stoneman Douglas under investigation to review his actions related to the shooting. The district superintendent, Robert W. Runcie, managed to stave off an effort by some school board members to remove him earlier this month.“We have these documentary film people coming and saying, ‘Oh, the community is coming together,’ and kind of putting a beautiful bow on it,” Mayor Hunschofsky said. “And there’s a lot of good going on in our community. But we cannot ignore what else is happening.”[If you are having thoughts of suicide, call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255 (TALK). You can find a list of additional resources at SpeakingOfSuicide.com/resources.]AdvertisementSupported byValorie Kondos Field, known to many as Miss Val, has created something of an oasis in a sport often characterized by intense turbulence.By Carla CorreaLOS ANGELES — By now, it’s clear from a number of investigations that women’s gymnastics in the United States has been tarnished by  administrators who overvalued winning and  coaches who did not know where the line existed between developing gymnasts and abusing them. And yet while much of the gymnastics world has been spinning out of control, rocked by sensational courtroom testimony and other revelations, there has been a seeming oasis tucked into the campus of U.C.L.A. Many outside the sport learned that last month when Katelyn Ohashi stunned millions of YouTube viewers with her strength, sassiness and thrilling tumbling.To those in the know, there was little surprise that Ohashi, once not far from an Olympic berth, rediscovered her joy of gymnastics at U.C.L.A., under a coach who cannot do a single pull-up. Valorie Kondos Field, known as Miss Val to basically everyone, is the first to admit she is not a perfect coach. She is her own sort of taskmaster, and she has a number of rules for her student-athletes. No chewing gum. No hair-ties on the wrists. But she has long presented an alternative to the often joyless training environment that has become associated with the elite levels of the sport.In Kondos Field’s gymnastics program, there is more talk about what the young women want to do after gymnastics rather than why they did or did not make an Olympic team. To teach gymnasts to speak up and defend a point of view, Kondos Field arranges for debates about topics, such as, “Should U.C.L.A. become a nudist campus?” The routines become a vehicle for self-expression, which is how you end up with Ohashi moonwalking her way through a floor exercise.“I know what it’s like to have to go through puberty in a leotard,” said Kondos Field, a former professional ballerina who had little experience in gymnastics instruction when she joined the program nearly four decades ago. “I know what it’s like to have disordered eating. I know what it’s like to have to go out there by yourself.”Kondos Field’s presence has special import right now, and not simply because another routine by a U.C.L.A. gymnast became an internet sensation. She is retiring at the end of the season. In 2014, Kondos Field learned she had breast cancer. She let her gymnasts feel the tumor in her breast because she wanted to help them understand that a setback was not an end. During chemotherapy, she worked on reframing her circumstances and considered what else she could accomplish. She is now considered cancer-free. In her office, guests are encouraged to get comfortable on a worn, mustard-yellow couch that once belonged to Kondos Field’s hero, the U.C.L.A. basketball coach John Wooden. The guests tell her what is going on in their lives as she sits in Wooden’s old captain’s chair. The word “gymnastics” may not even come up. That is fine.Margzetta Frazier, a U.C.L.A. freshman and recent member of the United States national team, said Kondos Field and her staff were the only prospective collegiate coaches who spoke to her about life after gymnastics when she was being recruited.“They didn’t bring up the Olympics,” she said. “They were like, ‘What do you want to be when you grow up?’”And where her gymnasts go, she will go, too, if necessary. At least eight gymnasts who were abused by Dr. Lawrence G. Nassar, the former U.S.A. Gymnastics team doctor, later competed or worked for the U.C.L.A. team. Two of them, Madison Kocian and Kyla Ross — the only women to have won Olympic gold, world championship gold and N.C.A.A. titles — shared their stories on national television in August, with Kondos Field by their side. Like any coach, Kondos Field may have her detractors, though they are not that easy to find. She and other N.C.A.A. gymnastics coaches adhere to methods that may be standard operational procedure in their sport — and other college sports, too — but might strike outsiders as overbearing. She monitors what the gymnasts eat for breakfast and how much they sleep. Those who break too many rules may be suspended from the team. After the 2016 season, she railed against her team’s conditioning.“I am not degrading you,” she recalled telling the gymnasts. “One reason why we’re not scoring higher is we’re not able to do better gymnastics because of our physical fitness.”They won a national championship two years later.Ohashi, who as a young teenager suffered from an eating disorder and was compared to “a bird that was too fat to lift itself off the ground,” called Kondos Field “my mentor, my mom, my sister, my best friend.’’“She’s literally everything to me,’’ she added. The team, like its counterparts at many other universities, participates in a grueling 14-meet schedule. Its scores are sometimes a point of contention. Some contend the U.C.L.A. gymnasts get a “leotard bonus” — a higher mark — simply because of the program’s status and its seven national championships since 1997. Others argue that Kondos Field’s intricate choreography can blind the judges to flaws.Still, U.C.L.A. executes some of the most difficult and artistic gymnastics in the N.C.A.A.Kondos Field, 59, was never a competitive gymnast. In a recent Instagram post, she hung from a set of chalky uneven bars, her feet cautiously tapping a mat as her Pilates instructor tried to encourage her to use her lat muscles when attempting that elusive pull-up.Knowing where she needs help, Kondos Field relies on her assistants, including the Olympic gold medalist Jordyn Wieber, to refine her athletes’ technical skills.Kondos Field grew up in Sacramento and first set foot in a gym in 1976. The instructor did not need a dance instructor, but he hired her to play piano for the floor exercises. “I couldn’t keep my big mouth shut as I’m playing,’’ she said. “I’m telling them: ‘Point your feet! Get your legs straight! Get your head up!’’’U.C.L.A. eventually hired her as a choreographer in 1982. After the 1990 season, the senior associate athletic director, Judith Holland, dismissed the coach and decided that Kondos Field was the best person to take on the job and reinvent the gymnastics program, which had yet to win a national championship. “I remember laughing out loud and saying, ‘You know I don’t know the first thing about gymnastics,’” Kondos Field recalled. “That came after I was catatonic for about 30 seconds.”At first, she became a stereotype of a coach, acting as if she were always right. She continually demanded more from her athletes, but the team floundered and she planned to resign. Then she happened upon some of Wooden’s teachings. His words resonated, just as they do with nearly every coach who works at U.C.L.A., where, nearly a decade after he died, he remains the Wizard of Westwood.“Success is a peace of mind, which is a direct result of self-satisfaction in knowing you did your best to become the best you are capable of becoming,” Wooden once wrote. That mind-set became the ruling principle of Kondos Field’s program. Its effect is easy to detect. “I’m willing to go out of my comfort zone,” said Gracie Kramer, who joined the team as a walk-on.And Frazier, the U.C.L.A. freshman and national team member, has become increasingly open to discussing the pressures that her sport places on teenage girls.“Elite gymnastics is messed up,’’ Frazier said. “I don’t care how many people come at me for that. Because they know it’s true. It’s decades of evil. And I feel bad saying that, because I love gymnastics and I’ve had some great coaches.”Kondos Field does not disagree. She is appreciative when her gymnasts speak their minds. Sometimes, she said, when they arrive on campus, they think her basic questions are “a test” and they will get in trouble for answering them honestly. Kocian, the Olympic gold medalist, agrees that happens. “I had always followed that elite mind-set of this is what you’re doing, you don’t have much of a say,” she said. But Kondos Field does not want it to be that way. And she has developed a cult following among gymnastics fans. At a meet last month against Arizona State, they looped a concourse, waiting for Kondos Field to sign copies of her book, “Life Is Short, Don’t Wait to Dance.” Some own “Miss Val” PopSockets. One Twitter user even made a version of “The Last Supper,” with Kondos Field as Jesus and gymnasts as disciples.The last meets are approaching, too, the last opportunities for Kondos Field, usually in inches-high heels, to lead the student section in mimicking the most memorable movements on the floor.AdvertisementSupported bynews analysisDesperate people can make $30 donating plasma, up to 104 times a year, in this $20 billion industry.By Zoe GreenbergMs. Greenberg is on the editorial staff of the Opinion section.PHILADELPHIA — Jacqueline Watson needed money. Her son had called her that morning from prison, where he is serving a life sentence, to ask her to make a deposit in his phone account. She didn’t have cash, but she did have something she could sell quickly and legally — her blood.So, on a crisp Monday morning in November, she traveled 40 minutes by bus to CSL Plasma, a blood plasma collection center wedged between a Dollar Tree and a Wells Fargo bank in a strip mall in North Philadelphia.“What always brings me here is money,” Ms. Watson, 46, said, as she waited in line to get her vitals taken. “I’m doing it for him, I guess you could say.” She earns about $30 each time she donates.The plasma business is booming in the United States, with the number of collection centers like this one more than doubling since 2005, and global sales roughly quadrupling since 2000 to be more than $21 billion in 2017. Many developed countries have banned paying people for their blood, but not the United States. Blood products made up 1.9 percent of all American exports in 2016, more than soybeans, more than computers.Plasma — the golden liquid that transports red and white blood cells and proteins through our bodies — is something of an elixir. It’s used to create lifesaving medicines for people with hemophilia, immune disorders, burns and other painful conditions, and it cannot be replicated in a lab. The market for those medicines is “projected to grow radiantly by 2023,” according to a report from Market Research Future. But there is an underside to all that growth: The industry depends on the blood of the very poor. Ethicists, sociologists, business executives and “plassers” themselves, as the donors are sometimes called, are increasingly asking: Is the business exploitative, taking advantage of desperate people? Or is it beneficial, offering much-needed income to those who have few avenues to make money? Should we encourage people to sell their lifeblood so frequently, or make it harder to do so?The Plasma Protein Therapeutics Association, a trade group, disputes the idea that the industry depends on desperate people.“When I go to centers, what I see in those centers is people of all walks of life. You see mothers, you see students, you see employed people, you see unemployed people,” said Jan Bult, the group’s president and chief executive. But plasma companies locate their collection centers disproportionately in destitute neighborhoods, according to Heather Olsen, who, as a graduate student researcher at Case Western Reserve University, examined 40 years of data on collection centers across the country. “They’re surgically placing these,” she said.Healthy people can donate plasma twice a week, up to 104 times a year. The plasma industry says that most people do not donate so frequently and that there are minimal health risks involved, but other researchers disagree. One 2010 study found that paid donors who sell their plasma frequently have fewer proteins in their blood, which some experts say could put them at risk for infections and liver and kidney disorders. In the short term, plassers have reported fatigue, tingling sensations, anemia and blacking out.Nonetheless, many are grateful for the opportunity. The money that comes from it can be the only form of cash income for families living in extreme poverty, as Luke Shaefer and Kathryn Edin note in their book “$2 a Day.”A number of people at the CSL collection center in North Philadelphia last November confirmed that the money they received there was their only income; they were putting it toward food, rent and bus fare. Some, like Kevin Hayway, were veteran plasma sellers; he estimated that he had sold his plasma more than 100 times a year for the past three years. Robert Jenkins said he had learned about the center when he was living at a homeless shelter; residents there recommended it as a good place to make fast cash. He planned to spend the money on food, starting at a McDonald’s across the parking lot. First-time donors like Mr. Jenkins are paid the most, around $50; after five donations, payment is based on body weight, plus bonuses. Mr. Shaefer, the poverty scholar, said the solution was not to ban the practice, but instead for policymakers to have a real debate about the risks. He suggested they might consider enforcing a minimum wage for plasma sellers.“Ideally,” he said, “I’d like to have a good discussion about what a fair price is.”His idea has some precedent: Selling whole blood used to be reputable, with professional blood sellers living in collective boardinghouses and even forming a union in the 1930s, according to Rose George’s book “Nine Pints.” During World War II, a biochemist figured out how to separate plasma, which can be dried, from whole blood, which was perishable and difficult to ship to the front. Soon after, the plasma industry was born. In the decades after the war, a growing body of research suggested that the blood supply would be healthier and safer if people voluntarily donated. In the 1970s, the Food and Drug Administration began requiring that whole blood be labeled either a voluntary or paid donation. Blood that had been paid for came to be seen as both morally and physically tainted, according to Ms. George; today, the Red Cross will not use it. The F.D.A. requirement never applied to plasma, perhaps because it is broken down and processed before entering another person’s body. The medicines manufactured from plasma do save lives. Seth Kaufman, a 44-year-old marketing executive and volunteer for the Immune Deficiency Foundation, had been sick most of his life, in and out of the hospital with relentless ear and sinus infections.Finally, when Mr. Kaufman was 36, his condition was diagnosed as an immunoglobulin deficiency, meaning his blood lacked crucial antibodies, and he was prescribed a medicine derived from human plasma. Now he can work and travel and play with his children without fear of contracting a debilitating lung infection.“When I tell you that this changed my life, it’s a massive understatement,” Mr. Kaufman said.I wanted to see exactly what type of screening donors went through to provide the plasma for people like Mr. Kaufman, so I donated plasma at a CSL Plasma clinic in Linden, N.J., in a strip mall next to a shuttered Pay Half store.I watched a 23-minute safety video; my finger was pricked and my temperature was taken; I answered 63 questions, from whether I had lived with someone with hepatitis in the past 12 months to whether I had ever received money for sex; and my arms and ankles were examined for needle sticks.This screening is robust but not fail-proof: In a survey of plasma donors at a CSL Plasma clinic in Ohio, Ms. Olsen found that 13 percent reported they had misled clinic workers about their health in order to donate.For three hours of my time and 689 mL of my plasma, I made $50, which was given to me on a prepaid debit card that charges a small fee when used.It made me wonder: Why, if money was changing hands, do plasma collection centers still use the language of donation?Harriet Washington, a bioethics lecturer at Columbia and the author of the book “Medical Apartheid,” said the semantics can mask the more troubling realities of the industry.“It’s really important to understand that the profit motive has sometimes been shown to outweigh concern for people’s health,” Ms. Washington said. “The problem with using words like ‘donors’ is that it creates the assumption of beneficence.”Mr. Hayway, who donates twice weekly, said he originally came for the money, but he liked that his plasma was helping people, too. He’s just not sure he’s getting a fair shake.A donation of plasma, for which he will be paid about $30, will yield roughly $300 worth of wholesale immunoglobulin, according to Roger Kobayashi, a clinical professor at the UCLA School of Medicine.“I know they get a lot of money,” Mr. Hayway said of the companies that run the plasma centers. “I would say they should pay more, but that’s just my opinion.”Zoe Greenberg is on the editorial staff of the Opinion section.CrowdwiseCreditCreditGraham RoumieuSupported byBy David PogueDo you laugh when someone’s grocery bag bursts? Do you find yourself stealing cabs? Have you shouted at puppies?If you answered yes to any of these, then you may have Empathy Deficit Disorder.For this Crowdwise, I asked you to recount some helpful things people said or did when you were in mourning — and to share some things that were decidedly unhelpful.Your responses make it clear that Empathy Deficit Disorder (not a real condition, but maybe it should be) has reached epidemic proportions:“After our daughter was stillborn,” wrote Wendy Thomas, “a colleague told me I shouldn’t have used the photocopy machine.”“My first husband died of cancer when he was 35 and I was 26,” recounted Patrice Werner. “I still recoil when I think of the number of people who said, ‘You’re young; you’ll find someone else.’”“My only child, Jesse, committed suicide at age 30,” Valerie P. Cohen recalled. “A friend wrote, ‘I know exactly how you feel, because my dog just died.’”To be fair, knowing the right thing to say doesn’t come naturally. We’re neither born with that skill nor taught it. Our society generally avoids talking about death and grieving. Many of us haven’t had much experience with people in desperate emotional pain, so it’s not always obvious when we’re helping and when we’re hurting.May the following pointers be your guide, brought to you by people who’ve been on the receiving end.Too many friends and acquaintances want to talk about how your loss affects them.When Linda Sprinkle’s husband died, for example, she encountered many people who wanted to share their own grief stories. “They thought that it showed that they understood how I felt — but their grief is different from my grief,” she wrote. “I ended up dredging up emotional energy I didn’t have to comfort them.”In her own mourning, Natalie Costanza-Chavez endured a parade of similarly self-focused remarks.“Oh my God, I could never handle what you are going through!” (Costanza-Chavez’s mental reply, “Yes. Yes you could. You just do. And, you would. Don’t further isolate me with your own projecting.”)“I didn’t call because I figured you wanted to be alone.” (Her: “Even if I did, you should always call, write, email, or text.”)“I didn’t visit because I hate hospitals. I don’t do hospitals.” (Her: “No one likes hospitals, no one, unless perhaps you are visiting a new baby. Do it anyway.”)“I’m so sorry for your loss to lung cancer. Did he smoke?” Or, if it was a heart attack, “Was she overweight?” (Her: “You are just trying to find reassurance that this scary, scary thing won’t happen to you. Stop it.”)Ann Weber, a social psychologist who specializes in loss and grief, has identified another well-meaning but frustrating platitude, “Let me know if you need anything.”“That suggestion seems like an innocuous promise,” Weber wrote, “but it’s often an exit line, just a way of escaping after the service or condolence call. And it puts the onus on the bereft person to be the one to ask for help.”You’ll hear many remarks that are intended to soothe you or lighten your mood. In principle, it’s a kind gesture. In reality, it’s never welcome.When you’ve lost someone you love, you’re in a dark, raw place. Nothing anyone can say is going to cheer you up, especially observations that begin with the words, “At least.”“At least she isn’t suffering,” was a particularly unhelpful line submitted by Beth Braker, who had to hear it. “At least you have other children,” recalled Margaret Gannon. “At least she didn’t die of AIDS,” remembered Jill Falzoi. “At least now you can have your own life,” Mary Otterson heard. (“I always had my own life,” she added. “Now I just have it without her in it.”)And, from Emma St. Germain’s financial adviser, “At least you can move to another state now, with a more favorable tax environment.”Crystal Hartley summed it up like this: “If you’re going to start off with ‘At least,’ just stop. It’s not going to be helpful. You’re trying to force them to look at the positive when they’re feeling terrible. Just acknowledge that the situation is bad enough exactly as it is, and validate their feelings.”Humor, on the other hand, is tricky enough under the best of circumstances; when someone is in emotional agony, it can be excruciating. Don’t be the cousin who approached Frances Rozyskie at her father’s funeral to blurt out, “So! You’re an orphan now!”Offering your beliefs about God and heaven to a nonreligious person can land with a thud, too. If the recipient doesn’t share your beliefs, you’re likely to add offense to the insensitivity.When she learned that she had lost identical twins to a miscarriage, Donna Hires was devastated. “I ran into a friend who said words I will never forget, ‘Oh, I heard it was twins. I guess God didn’t think you could handle two at once.’ It took me years to forgive her.”“In support groups for parents, ‘God never gives you more than you can handle’ is universally known as one of the cruelest comments for devastated parents to receive,” added Wendy Prentiss, whose 6-year-old nephew was diagnosed with a deadly cancer. “It suggests that the parents are weak for being crushed. It comes across as judgmental and tone deaf.”It also suggests, wrote Kathryn Janus, “that God had a hand in the death, and that’s just awful. And, P.S., sometimes the death is more than the bereaved can handle.”Unless you’re certain that the bereaved shares your faith, then it’s best to avoid these remarks, passed along by readers like Nancy Field, Kathryn Janus and Kirsten Lynch: “She’s in a better place now,” “It was God’s plan,” “God wanted him up in heaven” or “You’ll see her again someday.”One final bit of advice, “Don’t tell a grieving person how to feel. They may need to be vulnerable. They may need to cry for days on end,” wrote Kathryn Janus. In other words, don’t say things like, “Stay strong” or “Be strong.”Indeed, the most helpful thing anyone said to Teresa Brewer in her time of loss was, “Whatever you are feeling, and whenever you are feeling it, it’s O.K.”“I can’t tell you how liberating that was for me as I grieved,” she wrote. “There were times when many would think that I or my family should be somber, but we were howling with laughter. So it helps to be given permission for the feelings you have.”That list of what not to say includes many people’s go-to lines. So what should you say?“If you knew the person, tell the mourner a story about that person — ideally in written format, because the family passes these around. There is no greater gift than a story about the loved one at the very moment it seems there will never be new stories,” Leslie Berlin wrote.And if you didn’t know the person who died? Ms. Berlin suggests: “I didn’t know your [mom/dad/friend/sibling/child], but based on who you are, s/he must have been [nice adjective here].”If you have only a moment to interact with the bereaved, like in passing or at a funeral, here are some of your best suggestions:“I know how much you loved her.” — Beth Braker“I wish I had the right words for you.” — Kathryn Janus“I can’t imagine what you are going through, but I am here to listen if you need me.” — Wendy LoneyFor Karen Hill, “‘I’m so sorry’ is still the simplest and best.”Finally, if you really care, do something practical to help. Launch into action.“There’s a huge range of support. A hug in that moment, bringing food, listening when the person needs to talk, checking in, reaching out during the holidays,” wrote Patrice Werner. “Just do something. You will feel worse in the long run if you do nothing.”The key, advised Margaret Gannon, is, “Don’t offer, just do it. Show up with lunch (or dinner). Drop in and do my laundry. Take the kids out for a few hours. And most importantly, talk about the person who died. I don’t want him to be forgotten.”Christy Goldfinch summed it all up in her recollections of her husband’s death two years ago at 57. “The main things I remember were lots of hugs, and ‘I am so sorry,’ and personal anecdotes about Frank’s intellect, his wit, his compassion, his skill,” she wrote.AdvertisementSupported byCould a medical procedure you don’t even remember give you a stress disorder?By Kate JohnsonThe doctor ordered a “push” on my sedative, and I succumbed to the sweet blackness.But then something went wrong, and I was awake too soon, flailing and crying, the medical team scrambling to maneuver the tube that had been placed down my throat in what should have been a straightforward gastroscopy.I put up a violent struggle on the table: gagging and choking, trying to scream, fighting to pull the medical device out of my esophagus.“Hold her arms!” I heard someone yell. I felt hot tears, and pure terror … and then more blackness.This was the third time I had woken up under the twilight anesthesia known as “conscious sedation.”“You’ll be awake, but you won’t remember” is something thousands of patients are told every day, because the sedatives that doctors use to prepare us for these kinds of procedures come with a convenient side effect: amnesia.I had been given midazolam, a benzodiazepine known for its superior amnestic effects. I should have forgotten. But I didn’t. Instead, the fight-or-flight panic that had ensued was seared into my memory.A terrifying sense of doom enveloped me in the following days, as I kept reliving a routine medical test that my brain had registered, not unreasonably, as a physical assault.What went wrong?My previous two awakenings under conscious sedation had not filled me with the same terror as this one. They had not even struck me as unusual, since I’d been told I would not be entirely asleep.In the first, I awoke during a finger tendon repair to the sound of a metal rod being hammered into my joint. I don’t think I spoke or even opened my eyes. I felt no pain, or even fear. I simply felt a curious fascination with what was happening around me.My second awakening was during a bizarre pacemaker placement, when I opened my eyes to discover that my face had been covered with what I imagined was a blue hospital gown. There was a bright light shining through the fabric, and though I felt no pain, I was frightened by a strange fluttering in my chest as the device was being tested. I started to sob uncontrollably, my chest heaving, tears running down the sides of my face and into my ears. “Do you feel any pain?” the surgeon kept asking, and I told him no. “I’m just very emotional,” I remember saying. But the fear soon abated.It was only the third awakening that left me haunted by flashbacks and nightmares. What had gone wrong?I soon learned that I am part of only a tiny percentage of people who remember unsettling experiences under conscious sedation. Only three out of every 10,000 people report “undesired awareness” from nongeneral anesthesia, a number only slightly higher than the two out of every 10,000 patients who report this under general anesthesia, according to a study led by Dr. George Mashour, a neuroanesthesiologist at the University of Michigan and one of the world’s experts on anesthesia awareness. While some patients expect, or even want, to be awake during certain procedures, especially colonoscopies, “I don’t think any clinician would want somebody to be terrified or in pain,” Dr. Mashour said.But it happens.His research, using the American Society of Anesthesiologists’ Anesthesia Awareness Registry, a voluntary registry of patients with memories under conscious sedation or general anesthesia, showed that 78 percent of those reporting awareness under conscious sedation felt distress, and 40 percent had long-term psychological sequelae, including post-traumatic stress disorder.There has been extensive research and debate on how to prevent these awakenings, known as “anesthesia awareness,” under general anesthesia. But far less is known about their impact on people undergoing conscious sedation, which is growing in popularity and estimated to account for half of all anesthesia administrations in the United States within 10 years. Often requiring no anesthesiologist, no operating room and not even a hospital setting, conscious sedation is now being used increasingly for dental work, plastic surgery, heart rhythm corrections and many more procedures performed by a growing range of practitioners, including certified anesthesiologist assistants and nurse anesthetists.Part of the problem is that there is no firm definition of conscious sedation, which involves a cocktail of pain control, anxiety control and amnesia in amounts that can vary between patients, procedures and practitioners, says Dr. Andrew Davidson, head of anesthesia research at the Murdoch Children’s Research Institute in Melbourne, Australia.“Conscious sedation is a bit of an art,” Dr. Davidson said. “Some people say it’s actually harder to do than general anesthetic, because it’s actually more difficult to titrate the drugs to get exactly what you want.”In contrast to general anesthesia, in which the goals are well-defined — no pain, no awareness, no memory — conscious sedation is something of a gray zone, where the boundaries between consciousness and unconsciousness are blurred, where patients are sometimes expected to be semi-awake and responsive, and where their distress could potentially be ignored, because amnesia usually sets in.“With conscious sedation, I think physicians recognize that quite a lot of the time their patients will actually be distressed, but they’re relying on the fact that most are not going to remember it,” Dr. Davidson said. It is obviously not the goal, he added, “but it’s hard to get the dose right.” As he wrote in the Journal of Medical Ethics, “In many cases, the patient will wince or wriggle during the procedure — some may even tell you it hurts.” But “the vast majority won’t remember a thing,”In my case, plagued by my distressing memories, I was diagnosed with acute stress disorder, a transient form of PTSD. I spoke to a therapist, sought clarification from my physician, and am looking for ways to avoid a negative experience the next time.But what if, like most people, I had actually forgotten that panic and struggle on the table? Might I still have experienced the nightmares and anxiety, with no explanation for them? And might someone with a tendency toward depression or anxiety trace their problems back to forgotten experiences under sedation?“There’s plenty of evidence” that even without an explicit memory of surgery, humans can form implicit or subconscious memories under anesthesia, said Dr. Aeyal Raz, an anesthesiologist at the University of Wisconsin. “There is a trace of the event, a memory, left in the brain. However, it cannot be accessed with conscious thoughts and the person does not recall the learning event. Nonetheless, it may affect future feelings and behavior.”“Research in psychology suggests that even this very rudimentary memory activity may have profound effects on behavior or emotion,” wrote Jackie Andrade, a psychologist at the University of Plymouth, in a review of the topic. “It seems plausible that negative experiences during surgery could reduce patients’ well-being on recovery, but it is hard to prove,” she told me.But Dr. Davidson feels the evidence for implicit memory after anesthesia is “very mixed, and it is a very long bow to pull to say it has long lasting effects.”In an ongoing study, Dr. Raz’s team is looking at the link between awareness and memory formation under anesthesia and psychological symptoms a month later. “The numbers are too small to have conclusive results yet, so I should be careful with the interpretation, but we’ve had a small number of recall episodes, with most of these episodes related to PTSD symptoms, mostly to sleep problems, at 30 days,” he said. He said that many more patients were aware during the procedure — identified by asking them to move their arm during surgery — but did not remember it, and among these patients, it’s too early to say whether there is any increased risk of PTSD.“When I speak with the patients before giving them sedation, I tell them that they’ll be awake and may remember or not, though most don’t, and that I will be with them, and that if they’re in pain or uncomfortable they can tell me and I’ll give them more sedation or pain medication,” Dr. Raz said. “I hope that this allows them some control of the situation and a better understanding, which may help in preventing PTSD.”In a paper in the Journal of Medical Ethics, professor Walter Glannon, a biomedical ethicist and philosopher at the University of Calgary, explores the idea of offering an antidote to soften the sting of traumatic memories. Propranolol, for instance, is a drug that does not induce amnesia but can dampen the emotional content of a memory, especially if given within six hours of the traumatic experience.AdvertisementSupported byA procedure called mitochondrial replacement therapy could eliminate devastating diseases. It would not enable parents to ‘design’ their children.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Leigh syndrome is a terrible disease. In the worst cases, it emerges shortly after birth and claims one major organ after another. Movement becomes difficult, and then impossible. A tracheotomy and feeding tube are often necessary by toddlerhood, and as the disease progresses, lungs frequently have to be suctioned manually. Most children with the condition die by the age of 5 or 6.Leigh syndrome is one of hundreds of so-called mitochondrial diseases, which are caused by defects in the specialized cellular compartments — called mitochondria — that produce 90 percent of the body’s energy. These disorders are rare; about 1,000 to 4,000 babies in the United States are born with one every year. But they are devastating. They can result in grave impairment of nearly any bodily system. They are largely untreatable, uniformly incurable and very difficult to screen for.Some might also be preventable. Scientists have devised a procedure called mitochondrial replacement therapy (M.R.T.) that involves transplanting the nucleus of an affected egg — mitochondrial diseases are passed down from the mother’s side — into an unaffected one whose nucleus has been removed. (The procedure is sometimes called “three-parent I.V.F.” — in vitro fertilization — because mitochondria contain a minuscule amount of DNA; any resulting embryo would have mitochondrial DNA from the donor egg and nuclear DNA from each of its parents.)After decades of careful study in petri dishes, flies, rodents and primates, M.R.T. is finally being tested in human clinical trials by doctors in Britain. (Officials there have yet to confirm any births.) In the United States, however, the procedure is effectively illegal. In 2015, members of Congress quietly attached a two-sentence rider to an enormous appropriations bill, prohibiting the clinical use of any technology that would produce a genetically modified baby. Just two months later, a report from the National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine concluded that human trials of M.R.T. would be ethically permissible as long as several key safeguards were in place.On Wednesday, the Petrie-Flom Center at Harvard Law School will host a round-table discussion, during which the scientists, ethicists and families at the center of this issue will make the first significant attempt to reconcile the federal ban with the federally commissioned report.The participants will have much to discuss. For starters, proponents of M.R.T. have long held that the procedure should be exempted from the current prohibition, in part because it does not involve altering any genetic code. Defective mitochondria are swapped out for healthy ones, but mitochondrial DNA governs only a handful of basic cellular functions. It is separate from nuclear DNA, which helps determine individual traits like physical appearance, intelligence and personality. That means M.R.T. cannot be used to produce the genetically enhanced “designer babies” that so many people are concerned about. That’s not to say that the procedure is risk-free. There’s no way to know how safe or effective M.R.T. is until doctors test it in humans. Clinical trials and the American regulatory apparatus were designed for exactly this purpose: to minimize risk without forgoing medical progress. But opponents of mitochondrial replacement therapy say that in this case, to proceed with such trials would be to subject future humans to an experiment that they are powerless to oppose. [What will making babies be like in the future? Huge pools of health data may allow you to pick many of your child’s genetic traits. Is that a good thing?]Though that’s true, the same might be said of any birth, whether it’s assisted by technology or not. New life is always a risky proposition in which the life itself has no say. And parents have always tried to tip the odds toward success with deliberate actions — from prenatal nutrition to choice of school district — that can echo down through generations.Some members of Congress have indicated that the 2015 clinical ban could be lifted — or amended to exclude M.R.T. — once such ethical questions are resolved. But they’ve already reauthorized it three times without any further public discussion.They might look to their British counterparts for a template on moving forward. Before officials in the United Kingdom approved mitochondrial replacement therapy, they held multiple parliamentary debates on the issue. They also hosted public workshops and conducted in-person interviews and surveys that thousands of citizens participated in. When it became clear that there was broad support for moving forward, the British government established protocols for licensing clinics that wanted to try the procedure, and for monitoring the health of any resulting children.There’s no telling how things will play out in the United States. When the Food and Drug Administration held a forum on M.R.T. in 2014, the agency received hundreds of letters opposing the idea; but a good portion of those letters were form emails, and many of them indicated a poor understanding of mitochondrial DNA and of the replacement therapies in question. Surveys have consistently shown that most Americans support the use of technology that modifies the human genome, as long as it’s to eliminate diseases.The coming round table offers a good start to a long-overdue public dialogue. The group’s conclusions about if, when and how to proceed with human trials of M.R.T. are not foregone. But one hopes that as they talk, the nation’s leaders will listen.AdvertisementSupported byBy Allan KredaUNIONDALE, N.Y. — The Islanders supposedly left postseason mayhem at Nassau Coliseum behind four years ago with a Game 6, first-round win against Coach Barry Trotz and his Capitals. Farewells to Long Island were declared after the team lost its next game, in Washington, to end an era — or so fans and players surmised.Fast forward to 2019, and the Islanders have found their way home, at least part time, to their former and relentlessly raucous original arena after three-plus seasons at Barclays Center in Brooklyn. And a 103-point finish with Trotz now behind their bench earned the Islanders home ice in a playoff series for the first time since 1988, two years before their captain, Anders Lee, was born.Thunderous cascades of sound again filled the old-school Coliseum on Wednesday night during Game 1 against the Pittsburgh Penguins.Three times, the home crowd went wild for Islanders goals in regulation, and it was deafening when Josh Bailey scored 4 minutes 39 seconds into overtime to lift the Islanders to a 4-3 victory. Game 2 is Friday night at the Coliseum.It was a fitting goal for Bailey, 29, an Islander for his entire 11-year N.H.L. career. He narrowly missed scoring with five seconds left in the third period when his redirection hit the post behind Penguins goaltender Matt Murray. In overtime, the speedy 21-year-old Mathew Barzal, in his postseason debut, backhanded the puck off the post before Bailey swept the rebound past Murray.“Scoring an overtime winner in the playoffs is stuff you dream about as a kid,” Bailey said. “It’s a good feeling, but that being said, you have to turn the page and get ready for the next one.”[N.H.L. playoffs: first-round schedule and results]Bailey joined the Islanders as a 19-year-old in 2008-9 after they selected him ninth over all in the 2008 draft. He arrived a year before the Isles selected John Tavares at No. 1. The face of the franchise for nine years, Tavares is gone now, starting instead for the Toronto Maple Leafs this postseason.Bailey is signed through 2023-24, and his 797 games played is sixth in franchise history. Skating in the playoffs for the fourth time, Bailey clearly relished the sensation of whipping the home crowd into a frenzy.“That’s a big reason why we play hockey right there,” said Bailey, who is from Bowmanville, Ontario, about an hour’s drive northeast of Toronto. “We expected it to be an intense game, and it was.”Fans in one of the upper sections of Nassau Coliseum have long serenaded Bailey to the theme of the DJ Ötzi version of the Bruce Channel song “Hey! Baby.” Words are changed to “Hey, Josh Bailey! — Ooo! Ahh! We wanna know! Will you score a goal?”As jubilant Islanders followers headed for the Coliseum exits on Wednesday night, they sang the altered lyrics and waved orange playoff towels. That was after they practically drowned out Bailey’s on-ice postgame interview with their voices, all part of the atmosphere at an arena many Islanders fans never really wanted the team to leave in the first place.After a career-best 71 points last season, Bailey continued his solid play this season under Trotz, with 16 goals and 56 points, the third straight season he reached at least 40 assists.Bailey wasn’t the only player to hear his name chanted by the home crowd. Goalie Robin Lehner, in his first season with the Islanders, earned the first playoff win of his career, making 41 saves, in only his third career playoff game and first since 2013.“It was amazing as always,” Lehner said. “This is special. I don’t understand how they can scream for that long. But good for them. Good for them.”A little more than a year ago, Lehner had a panic attack during a game with the Buffalo Sabres. He later entered the league’s substance abuse recovery program and also learned he had bipolar disorder.This season, he and Thomas Greiss shared the Jennings Trophy, which is given to the goalies on the team that allowed the fewest goals. Lehner won a career-high 25 games and had a 2.13 goals-against average.Wednesday’s game had everything to be expected from playoff hockey — the kind of April tempest the Islanders and Penguins exhibited in 2013, when Pittsburgh won a hard-fought series in six games. Postwhistle scrums were common. Hard hits drove opponents into the boards and skate blade stops near the crease seemed to produce higher waves of ice shavings to annoy goaltenders.The Islanders’ demeanor mirrors their coach’s, and the approach worked against the Penguins, whom Trotz is meeting for a fourth consecutive postseason. His Capitals lost to the Penguins in 2016 and 2017 when Pittsburgh won the Stanley Cup before the Capitals finally upended the Penguins in last year’s second round on the way to winning the Cup.Trotz was proud of the Islanders’ performance and effort heading into Game 2.“They didn’t flinch at all, which is good,” Trotz said. “In close games, we’ve learned to be comfortable, and there are going to be close games in the playoffs.”AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickWhen you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By A.O. ScottCan you separate the artist from the art? Lately that dusty theoretical question has been revived in reference to certain problematic men. How do we respond when greatness and awfulness coexist, or when talent is used as an alibi for gross misbehavior? Usually by fighting among ourselves.“Her Smell,” Alex Ross Perry’s relentless new film, poses the problem in a different register, and not only because the difficult artist in question is a woman. The lead singer in an all-female trio called Something She, she goes by the name Becky Something. The nom de guerre (Becky is nothing if not combative) suggests both that self-invention is part of her creative program and that it remains incomplete. She used to be Rebecca Adamczyk (she’s played by Elisabeth Moss), and now she’s someone else.The artist, in other words, is the art. That’s just rock ’n’ roll canon, from Elvis (Presley or Costello) to Johnny Rotten and beyond. St. Vincent is a Becky Something, and so is Cardi B. On a more literal level, Becky’s resemblance to Courtney Love is unmistakable, even if it’s also deniable. Some details track very closely; others don’t. But in spite of that warped mirroring, and in spite of its familiar VH1 “Behind the Music” rise-fall-redemption structure, “Her Smell” is no musical biopic.It’s a train wreck in five acts, mostly unfolding offstage. We are behind the scenes in the aftermath of one concert and in the anxious run-up to two others. We are in a recording studio during an especially messy session and in the rambling country house where Becky takes refuge after everything falls apart. I say we are there because Perry’s camera is like a human presence: clammy, curious, caught between the urge to follow Becky everywhere and the impulse to run away from her.That summary isn’t in order, by the way, but disorder is Becky’s method and her muse. Which isn’t quite true of Perry, a highly disciplined filmmaker who has cast Moss in three of his last four features. The more unpleasant people are, the more rigorous his attention to them becomes. His collaborations with Moss (notably here and in “Queen of Earth”) are suites for fingernail and blackboard, unbearable and strangely beautiful. Moss strips away every shred of her charm to reveal her charisma in its rawest state, implicating Perry and the audience in a voyeurism that can feel almost holy.In rock ’n’ roll mythology, the road to transcendence often passes through the gutter, and “Her Smell” sets out a beggar’s banquet of abjection. Shot (by Sean Price Williams) in a blemish-enhancing palette of smudged makeup and unflattering light, the movie barely leaves its title to the imagination. Its images might induce olfactory hallucinations of spilled liquor, cigarettes, nervous sweat and vomit.And genius, too. Moss is deep in Becky’s skin, and Perry is steadfastly on her side. Not that he condones or forgives. She is gleefully cruel and monstrously inconsiderate to everyone around her, daring them to fight back or flee. Her bandmates, Marielle (Agyness Deyn) and Ali (Gayle Rankin), are old hands at sitting out her tantrums and deflecting her taunts. Her ex-husband (Dan Stevens) and her mother (Virginia Madsen) are indulgent and resentful by turns. The head of Something She’s record label (Eric Stoltz) alternates between playing the victim and enabling her forays into self-harm.What does she have to do to drive them away? Who will she hurt the most? Her young daughter? Ali and Marielle? The star-struck punk acolytes who haven’t yet developed antidotes to her toxicity? Herself? These questions are exhausting.But as terrifying and grinding as it can be — long scenes play out in what feels like real time against horror-movie soundscapes, dread dangling from the camera like a lens cap — Becky’s story is also tender and funny. The music and images ache with nostalgia for the ’90s and early 2000s, when the action takes place. The five chapters spread out over six years or so and are punctuated by home-video-style flashbacks to the band’s earlier glory days. Those clips capture them in the full, bratty ebullience of youth, acting out in ways that foreshadow the darker, heavier times to come.Perry is a rock ’n’ roll antiquarian for sure. The make-believe CD cases that pop up alongside the final credits look uncannily like real album covers, and other artifacts of the pre-iPod musical universe are equally right. But he also has a revisionist streak, an interest in reimagining the recent past rather than faithfully reconstructing it. The music scene in “Her Smell” is female-centric in a way that feels both pointed and matter of fact. There are male musicians around, but they are marginal figures, husbands and hangers-on, bystanders at the big show.Which isn’t only about Becky. She has a frenemy named Zelda (Amber Heard), a rival rocker who is Apollo to her Dionysus, or maybe David Bowie to her Iggy Pop. Something She is also entangled with a group called the Akergirls, a younger trio whose sisterly vibe seems like a generational rebuke to the dysfunction that defines Becky’s relationship with Ali and Marielle. (The Akergirls are played by Ashley Benson, Dylan Gelula and Cara Delevingne, who might make you hope for a sequel.)I don’t think Perry is trying to show that women in music can be just as reckless and vain as men, but rather that he’s trying to take such facile gender-based comparisons off the table to home in on Becky’s inner tensions and contradictions. For her part, Moss varies the volume and the tempo of her performance, calling forth cascades of profane invention and rills of whispery poetry, but she always stays in the same key, the key of Becky.Becky is a narcissist, an addict, a liar and an abuser. Still, even at her worst — and the movie is all about her worst — she shows the wit and unpredictability that make it hard for anyone to quit her. Some of that resides in her dazzling verbal dexterity. When she’s ranting, riffing and soliloquizing, a torrent of metaphor, allusion and alliteration spills from her mouth. It’s too much to take in, but it keeps you listening.Her lyrics are more jagged and austere. (The original songs were composed by Alicia Bognanno and Anika Pyle.) “I don’t want to quit/I just want to be in control of it,” Becky sings during the film’s quiet, rural sequence. The line sounds like it’s about substance abuse, and “Her Smell” is unsparing in its attention to the awful thrill of using and the tedium and terror of sobriety. But there is another layer of meaning there, at once plainer and more abstract. The “it” she wants to be in control of, the thing she would rather not quit, is her art. Her life, in other words.When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.Movie data powered by IMDb.com Her SmellRated R. Parental Advisory: Explicit Lyrics. Running time: 2 hours 14 minutes.AdvertisementSupported byEsketamine, the nasal-spray antidepressant recently approved by the F.D.A., is promising, but using it entails some practical challenges.By Benedict CareyDoctors welcomed federal approval this week of a new, fast-acting nasal spray for depression. But also they expressed concerns about its cost and long-term effects, as well as the logistics of administering it in accordance with safety requirements.The new drug, esketamine, made by Janssen Pharmaceuticals, won approval from the Food and Drug Administration on Tuesday for people who have received little or no relief from other antidepressants. The F.D.A.’s decision followed months of anticipation; esketamine, which will be marketed under the name Spravato, is the first prescription for depression derived from ketamine, an old and widely used anesthetic.The recommended course of the newly approved drug is twice a week, for four weeks, with boosters as needed, in conjunction with one of the commonly used oral antidepressants. But both esketamine and ketamine have side effects, including out-of-body sensations and hallucinations, and have the potential for abuse. The F.D.A. issued strict safety requirements: Doses must be taken in a doctor’s office or clinic, with patients monitored for at least two hours, the experience must be entered in a registry, and patients should not drive on the day of treatment.“These issues raise barriers,” said Dr. Erick Turner, a psychiatrist at Oregon Health & Science University. “People have to come in twice a week to the hospital and stick around for two hours being monitored. So you’ve got to have space for them, and the question is, where? The waiting room’s not going to work — in the clinic somewhere, which can be hard to find. And then someone’s got to drive them home.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The cost of Spravato is also a concern, some doctors said. The wholesale price of the one-month initial treatment will range from $4,720 to $6,785, depending on dosage, according to Janssen. Follow-up treatment will cost an additional $2,360 to $3,540. That makes the overall cost comparable to existing treatments like electroconvulsive therapy and transcranial magnetic stimulation.The retail price of esketamine, with added hospital costs, is steeper than treatment with intravenous ketamine, the generic anesthetic. Hundreds of clinics around the country already provide a course of intravenous treatments, usually six over a couple of weeks, for about $500 per infusion, plus booster infusions as needed. The cost comes out of pocket, since the generic anesthetic is not approved for depression.Insurers are more likely to cover at least a portion of the cost of esketamine nasal spray, but the industry does not always follow the government’s lead.“It’s expensive, and I’m skeptical, but we do intend to set up treatment here,” said Dr. Mark George, a professor of psychiatry and neurology at the Medical University of South Carolina, in Charleston. He said his electroconvulsive therapy clinic has space for esketamine treatment, but that he will have to hire a nurse and perhaps other personnel.“I have spent 30 years investigating depression and I am massively aware of how devastating depression can be,” he added. “So for now I am grateful to have a new tool in the tool kit.”Dr. Carolyn Rodriguez, an assistant professor and associate chair in the psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Stanford’s medical school, said the safety requirements were crucial, and that patients should also be informed of the drug’s risks.“Ketamine’s effects are transient, and we don’t know the long-term effects of repeated dosing” of either the anesthetic or esketamine, said Dr. Rodriguez, who is studying the generic anesthetic as a possible treatment for obsessive-compulsive disorder. “We do know that people who abuse the drug, using it at higher doses, and frequently, have bladder toxicity and cognitive problems. Patients will need to be fully informed.”Psychiatrists also said they have been thinking about which patients are ideal candidates for the new drug. The data presented by Janssen to the F.D.A. were mixed, and suggested that esketamine provided lasting relief for a subset of people with treatment-resistant depression.Doctors administering the intravenous generic anesthetic also have reported mixed results, with some reporting very high improvement across the board, and others much less so.Dr. John Lauriello, chair of psychiatry at the University of Missouri School of Medicine, in Columbia, said that his clinic already administers intravenous ketamine for some patients, with good results. The new drug, he said, likely would appeal most to people with deep depression who are skittish about being hooked up to an I.V. and respond slowly to other treatment.“I’ve got a guy, he eventually got better on standard antidepressants,” Dr. Lauriello said. “But it took three weeks; they were the worst three weeks of his life, and mine. That’s the sort of person I might give the esketamine spray, to buy time until the standard treatment works.”AdvertisementSupported byHelp DeskBy Judith NewmanHow did I know my anxiety had gotten the better of me? When I found myself taking meticulous notes on a forthcoming book by Erica Feldmann called HAUSMAGICK: Transform Your Home With Witchcraft (HarperOne, $25.99, available in March). The year 2018 hadn’t been so great, what with the death of a husband and, possibly, a republic. Maybe 2019 would be better if I bought certain purifying elements for my home. The right crystals, sage sticks and — salt? Apparently, you can sprinkle salt around the house after a person with “toxic energy” visits. Attention future dates: If you see me reaching for the shaker as you’re leaving, you know things haven’t gone well.If my nerves are frayed, I take cold comfort in knowing I’m not alone. Whether it’s our political situation, the jangling distractions of everyday life or the not-irrational sense that mankind’s need to find another planet isn’t just a sci-fi plotline, we seem to be in the midst of one massive freakout. Kierkegaard argued that anxiety stemmed from the “dizziness of freedom,” the paralysis that comes from infinite choice and possibility. That was in 1844. Imagine what he would have thought about today.But here’s some good news: If we’re all a little tense, well, there’s a book for that. Many books, actually. Several of the ones I consulted were so wrongheaded or incomprehensible they made me more nervous. (“Motivation is a Unicorn Fart” almost made me hurl in a glittery rainbow arc.) Here are three that worked.Recently a friend told me that he had reached what he calls his vidpoint: the moment you realize you have more movie hours stored on your DVR than you have hours left to live. I thought about that friend while reading Matt Haig’s NOTES ON A NERVOUS PLANET (Penguin, paper, $16), a follow-up to his previous book “Reasons to Stay Alive,” which chronicled his struggles with anxiety and depression. The core of first-world malaise, he argues, can be summed up by something T. S. Eliot observed in “Four Quartets”: We are “distracted from distraction by distraction.” Here, in clever chapterettes and listicles (he seems to assume we’re all too jumpy to read more than a few pages at a time), Haig muses about our anxieties: our fears of aging, of not being rich, of not being beautiful or successful enough. All while being massive consumers of everything. What really sells, he says, is not so much sex as fear. Every day, every minute, we’re deluged with images of people who are prettier, richer and having more fun than we are. And then there’s the bombardment of news, which is presented in a way to provide “more food for our nightmares.” Which is why we must take time to simply turn it all off and go outside. (I’m going to do this just as soon as the Mueller report is delivered.) This isn’t exactly a novel concept, and Haig mentions but doesn’t explore the science of, say, why staring at the sky or simply being out in nature helps our mental health. But he does have some memorable ways of telling us about it. (“Hello. I am the beach. … I have been around for millions of years. I was around at the dawn of life itself. And I have to tell you something. … I am entirely indifferent to your body mass index. … I am oblivious.”) And he has one terrific piece of advice that I’m thinking of sewing on a pillow sampler and giving to my teenage sons: “Never be cool. Never try to be cool. Never worry what the cool people think. Head for the warm people. Life is warmth. You’ll be cool when you’re dead.”I can’t help noting, however, that the last time I checked Haig’s Twitter feed he had posted seven times in two hours. Maybe he’s still trying.“Anxiety” is a mild term for what can be a severe mental illness. In fact, anxiety disorders of various degrees are among the most common mental illnesses in America, affecting more than one in five adults. In HOW NOT TO FALL APART: Lessons Learned on the Road From Self-Harm to Self-Care (TarcherPerigee, paper, $16), Maggy Van Eijk starts with a hopeful message: You can have any number of mental health issues and still learn to cope. Van Eijk, who’s now the BBC’s social media editor, has a history of severe anxiety as well as borderline personality disorder; her arms are scarred from years of cutting. She’s also really funny. Here’s a partial list of what one of her bad anxiety days can look like: “Waking up in the middle of the night to remember that thing I said five years ago was a bit rude. Time to linger on that memory until sunrise! … Having a bath to try to relax but then remembering the bath is basically an open coffin filled with my own liquid filth. … Seeing a pile of clothes in the dark and thinking it looks like a massive panther, then thinking … ‘What if it is a panther?’”Van Eijk’s book is organized around life challenges, and what to remember if they happen to You, Person With Mental Illness. Her explanation of self-harm is particularly touching and helped me to understand why a person might do it. Among the reasons she hasn’t done it, she writes, is that “I’ve been listening to My Chemical Romance all day.” Rather, it’s about the anger that “refuses to leave my body” if she’s upset or about the feeling that “my voice isn’t being heard and it has nowhere to go.” This is a woman who, after a breakup, had to go to a burn unit after repeatedly putting out a cigarette on her arm, so one tends to listen to her about the distraction/substitution methods she uses to stop hurting herself. And her reasons for doing things as mundane as making lists turn out not to be mundane at all. “Lists,” she reminds us, “are a direct link to the future.” And if you’re someone who has thoughts about having no future, she says, they can at least temporarily steer you away from a terrible decision.If I had a self-destructive young adult in my life, someone in real pain, this is probably the book I’d get her.Like many who have experienced recent loss, I tend to bolt upright at 3 in the morning, heart pounding, with one overarching thought: “What now?”  Which is why I found Claire Bidwell Smith’s ANXIETY: The Missing Stage of Grief (Lifelong/Da Capo, $26) both soothing and informative. Smith was 14 and an only child when both of her parents got cancer. If that’s not enough of a breeding ground for a lifetime of anxiety attacks, I don’t know what is.The experience of both parents dying when she was young propelled Smith into hospice work and grief therapy. “No one ever told me that grief felt so like fear,” C. S. Lewis wrote in “A Grief Observed,” and Smith understands this observation on the deepest personal level. She goes over techniques for dealing with anxiety, whatever its source. Maybe it’s about the guilt you feel when recalling the decisions you’ve made for a dying loved one; maybe it’s about your loneliness; or maybe, as is often the case in full-blown panic attacks, it’s because you’re convinced that you’re next. Smith’s words are particularly useful for panic attack sufferers. Once you know that you’re not, indeed, dying, she shows you how you can normalize your panic, and how you can look at these episodes with curiosity, not terror. It’s also useful to be reminded that American society isn’t one that honors grief. In many other cultures, she explains, quoting a colleague, you have “six or 12 months of a grieving period where the world doesn’t expect much of you.” Someone give me that one-year-free pass, please.Certainly reading a book or three may not be the answer, and none of these books emphasize, or even discuss, medication as a possible aid. My own thoughts about dealing with severe anxiety? Start with your doctor. And then, for life’s more modest challenges, there’s always my new go-to: A DRINKABLE FEAST: A Cocktail Companion to 1920s Paris (TarcherPerigee, $18), by Philip Greene. I have yet to try a Monkey Gland or a Scoff-Law cocktail, but am infinitely calmer after three glasses of vin blanc cassis — and pleased to know it was a Henry Miller favorite. Four ounces of chilled dry white wine, one ounce of chilled crème de cassis, red fruit for garnish. Now breathe.You’re welcome.Judith Newman is the author, most recently, of “To Siri With Love: A Mother, Her Autistic Son and the Kindness of Machines.”Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.FootnotesThe rapper, whose real name is Bobby Hall, has branched out with a debut novel, “Supermarket.”CreditCreditRozette Rago for The New York TimesSupported byBy Lovia GyarkyeBobby Hall, better known as the Grammy-nominated rapper Logic, started writing his debut novel, “Supermarket,” four years ago.   He had released “The Incredible True Story,” a dystopian concept album in which two men search for a planet named Paradise in the wake of Earth’s destruction, and finished the script for a film, “Everything Must Go,” now in development with J.J. Abrams’s production company, Bad Robot. He was looking for a new project. “I didn’t want to necessarily just be stuck in music,” he said. “Supermarket,” just published by Simon & Schuster, is a psychological thriller that centers on Flynn, an aspiring writer who has been dumped by his girlfriend. Depressed and desperate for change, he takes a job at a supermarket, hoping to find inspiration through daily minutiae. But nothing is what it seems, and the novel quickly takes twists and turns while tackling issues including depression and anxiety.It’s not the first time he has addressed mental health in his work: His song “1-800-273-8255,” titled after the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, has gone platinum five times.Hall, 29, recorded an accompanying soundtrack timed to the novel’s release this week. He does not consider himself a big reader, he said, but credits Indiana Jones novels and H.G. Wells’s “The Time Machine” as inspirations for the kind of story he wanted to tell. “Bobby is the quintessential multi-hyphenate. He’s a natural storyteller,” Stuart Roberts, Hall’s editor at Simon & Schuster, wrote in an email. “I was instantly taken by the book’s voice and inventiveness.” I talked to Hall about his debut as a writer, mental health, the importance of music to him and what he hopes his fans will take away from this project.“Supermarket” deals with a number of mental health issues — from anxiety and depression to schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. What research did you do before writing the book? The research I did was all personal. I had an anxiety attack and almost passed out when I was in line to see “Star Wars” in December 2015. I was in the most depressed, anxiety ridden place of my life. My mother was bipolar. She took heavy medication to deal with it, and I grew up with friends who were schizophrenic, so I experienced that firsthand. Did you face any challenges while writing the book? How did the process differ, if at all, from writing music? One of the biggest challenges was writing something that stemmed from real life. Nobody wants to talk about anxiety and depression and being scared and feeling crippled at times. It’s not a fun thing to discuss. I have written scripts for my albums before, I have done concept albums, so I guess it is something that has been building up.What do you hope readers to take away from it?I guess the biggest thing is as long as you deal with your problems head-on and face your demons, whatever they may be — mental, physical, emotional — if you truly deal with it, it gets better. And that you can do anything you want. I am a dude with no formal education. I didn’t even graduate from high school. But you can’t let that tear you down.Your characters listen to a lot of contemporary music and artists, like Toro y Moi and Rex Orange County. Can you talk about the relationship between music and the novel?I thought it would be really cool if when readers see that artist’s name and the song on that page, maybe they will play that song while they read. We tend to associate our emotions and experiences with what we are listening to or watching. I just thought it would be cool to add these artists who have given me great memories and pass that on to readers.Are there any other songs or albums or artists you were listening to while writing the book?Oh, definitely — I actually created a playlist on Spotify. Did you always know that you were going to record the soundtrack?It definitely came from writing the book. I was at my old house and making these songs about love. I was feeling kind of lonely, and I realized that is also how Flynn felt. When I was writing these songs for a woman that didn’t even exist at the time, it kind of hit me like, I want to do more than just rap. I love hip-hop, I love rap, it’s in my blood. And it is scary as a musician to have a world of people who know who you are, and that when you do something different, different is not good. Nobody likes different. These were songs that almost would have never come out because I would have been too scared. But I think that fear is a good thing. Let’s talk about the album. How does it relate to the book?AdvertisementSupported byThe EthicistBy Kwame Anthony AppiahI am the parent of a high school student with multiple issues. Her learning disabilities and mild autism are dwarfed by a severe mood disorder that has forced our family to endure daily hourslong tantrums that have disturbed neighbors and drawn the police. Triggers are typically minor, like being asked to tidy her room. She’s attractive and physically healthy, has an average I.Q. and has a sibling who has suffered greatly.Nearly two decades of this has battered our marriage and careers. We are approaching retirement age, but we have spent a fortune on therapists, medications and special programs, with little to show for it. I worry she may never have friends or become financially independent because she’s so argumentative, selfish and unpleasant. We’re already underfunded for retirement, so we are in no position to support a third person indefinitely.We recently set up a special-needs trust. Our daughter is considered high-functioning and is capable of attending college and working. But according to the laws in our state, she will continue to be our responsibility, possibly for the rest of our lives. She holds it together during the school day and works part time but explodes upon returning home. Her issues are rooted in biology, but I think she’s capable of better behavior. She seems to enjoy her tantrums and refuses antipsychotic medication.While society rightly focuses on adults who abuse kids, nobody cares about the reverse. It’s difficult to express what this daily pounding feels like after so many years, but one result is clear: I would like her out of my house, and I want to have only limited contact in the future, though I’m willing to support her if she’s in college.Having lost the middle chunk of my life to chaos and misery, am I really condemned to live this way until I die? Would I be the most terrible parent in the world if I packed my bags and vanished Name WithheldI’m so sorry to hear about your suffering, including the devastation of your marriage; losing a rewarding relationship with your spouse must have made your difficulties even harder to bear. Many people have disabled children, but it’s a challenge of another order when a child’s condition makes her act in a way that frays parental affection. When you have children, you are accepting the responsibility of looking after them into adulthood or finding someone else who will. And it’s natural to think that the burden of care will be lightened by love. Love can sustain us when duty is hard.But just as your daughter doesn’t have full control of her feelings or her actions, you don’t have full control over yours. What philosophers call “reactive attitudes” — anger, fear, resentment, gratitude, even love — are natural responses to the behavior of others. To abandon such responses is to stop treating those people as moral persons; it’s to see the behavior as the behavior not of someone but of something. This can be appropriate with infants, say, or someone who is severely mentally ill. Yet your daughter has enough of the normal range of mental capacities, in your view, that you respond to her as a person, not a patient.Reflection can sometimes moderate such responses — as when you see that someone who has treated you badly was under enormous stress and you forgive the behavior. Yes, you suggest that your daughter could do more to control her tantrums and that she ought to be willing to try medication to help her do so. But if she has tried medication and dislikes the way it makes her feel, she may have reasons for refusing. And let me draw attention to the obvious: She’s an adolescent. Even in ordinary circumstances, there’s a basis for the cliché of the moody, broody, surly, volatile teenager. It’s also possible that she’s aware that she has imposed terrible costs on her family, and she may well be fearful that you will do what you’re contemplating.In the end, however, you can feel only what you feel you have reason to feel. Our culture readily demonizes parental ambivalence, never mind parental alienation. But given the dynamic you describe, you can’t be held responsible for your cooling emotions. A decision like the one you’re contemplating would, to be sure, best be made in consultation with her psychiatrist, giving consideration to the fact that, while mood and personality disorders typically persist, adolescence does not. Some states, like yours, impose legal responsibilities beyond this when a child has severe difficulties. As a moral matter, however, you may resolve to see her into legal adulthood and then leave her behind. There are limits on the demands that children can reasonably make on their parents.I am a single mom of a teenage son, and we are very close and open with each other. He has three friends from his previous school whom he still sees regularly. Recently he confided that the boys told him they had skipped school twice over a few weeks, renting bikes and riding from one end of town to another to spend the day at one of the boy’s homes while his parents were working. I sat with this information for a day and then felt compelled to call the boys’ parents. My rationale was that I have known them for years, and if the roles were reversed, I would want to get the call. I asked the parents not to divulge where they were getting their intelligence, but unfortunately they threw my son under the bus. He is livid with me. He said that he shared this information with me privately and that I betrayed him. He said that he will never tell me anything ever again and that I have destroyed his friendships. I stuck to my guns and apologized only for not explaining to him earlier that, as the grown-up, I have a responsibility to report things when I think others may be putting themselves in harm’s way. What do you think? Name WithheldYour resentment toward these other parents for throwing your son “under the bus” may be justified, but you should have foreseen that your actions were likely to implicate him: How many people were in a position to know? And though you’re clearly pleased by the openness of your relationship with him, he will have noticed that it wasn’t reciprocated. Wouldn’t it have been a good idea to discuss your intentions with him before you made the calls? He’s old enough that he might have had relevant things to say in making the case for not doing so: e.g., that because he was likely to be fingered as the source, you were about to blow up his friendship with these kids, who no doubt would complain to other classmates about his snitching, thereby jeopardizing his social standing at an age when that’s a carefully tended thing. And for what?You mention nothing that suggests these boys were actually in danger. Yes, they were deceiving their parents and their school, but what they were up to sounds like the tamest of truancies. They weren’t laying plans to deal fentanyl; more likely they were leveling up in Fortnite. And you’ve made it less likely that your own son will trust you with this sort of information again.Given the quality of your relationship, he’ll probably forgive you eventually, though he’s reaching an age when you should expect him to share less information with you anyway. That’s part of growing up. You’re a loving mom with an easy-to-love kid. But soon enough you’ll need to leave the helicopter parked on the tarmac.I am the owner of a small business with just a few employees. I maintain a very positive work environment and rely on their skilled and dedicated work to keep the business running. It would be very disruptive if any of them left, and they would be hard to replace. I received a message for one of them on the firm’s voice mail from a staffing company, which suggests that he may be looking for a new position. I would do whatever I can to retain him. But is it ethical for me to broach the subject, having intercepted a call that was intended for him? Name WithheldAdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Jon ParelesSolange’s breakthrough 2016 album, “A Seat at the Table,” was a sweet-voiced, multilayered manifesto: the sound of one black woman finding her path forward and confronting the ways systemic racism and sexism affect personal struggles. Its successor, “When I Get Home,” is something different: a reverie, a meditation, a therapeutic retreat, a musicians’ playground.“With ‘A Seat at the Table,’ I had so much to say,” Solange said in an interview streamed from Houston on Sunday night. “And with this album, I have so much to feel.”For Solange, 32, “When I Get Home” is one more step away from ordinary pop expectations. Even before “A Seat at the Table,” she spiked her more conventional R&B albums with songs insisting she was different. Now she has nearly let go of the pop structures that undergirded “A Seat at the Table” and kept its songs catchy.“When I Get Home” is built for gentle, repeated immersion, not instant gratification. Its tracks prize mantras over hooks, and wander in structure and tempo, taking improvisational tangents. Although the album is punctuated by spoken-word interludes — bits of poetry, self-help, comedy and tribute — it is designed to flow as a whole, gradually infusing a room like incense or the smells of home cooking.The opening song, “Things I Imagined,” makes clear that Solange is offering floaters, not bangers. She sings, “I saw things I imagined” more than a dozen times, repeating the line or parts of it while continuously toying with the music: different melodies, different speeds, different chords, everything in a dreamlike flux. A labyrinthine transition leads to the optimistic, vaguely spiritual refrain that will also close the album: “Takin’ on the light.” The production, like nearly the entire album, uses layers of keyboards with improvisational tendrils and puffy, quavery, analog-sounding tones that hark back to 1970s Stevie Wonder, particularly “Journey Through the Secret Life of Plants.” And Solange’s voice is sure-footed and playful, confident that the music will follow her every whim.On nearly all of the full-length songs, Solange is credited as the sole composer and lyricist. She has a long list of guests — among them Playboi Carti, Gucci Mane, Earl Sweatshirt, The-Dream, Dev Hynes, Sampha, Scarface and Panda Bear from Animal Collective — but outside a few prominent guest raps, Solange and her musicians slip the collaborators into the background. This is her space, her sanctuary.As its title suggests, “When I Get Home” contemplates returning home and making a refuge there, reconnecting with memories and everyday surroundings that were once taken for granted. The black solidarity that was Solange’s strongest message on “A Seat at the Table” is still there in “Stay Flo” and in “Almeda,” where she praises “Black skin, black braids, black waves, black days” and insists, “These are black-owned things” over rattlesnake drum-machine accents. But most of the album has her musing on more private, domestic matters and looking inward.The home she invokes is the Third Ward in Houston, where Solange grew up. She returned there to work on this album following a period of upheaval. After a tour that was a model of abstract, starkly choreographed precision, Solange had severe health problems. As 2017 ended, she canceled a New Year’s Eve show because she was coping with an autonomic nerve disorder.Some tracks on “When I Get Home” are named after Houston streets, and Solange’s lyrics (as they were in “Scales” on “A Seat at the Table”) are dotted with references to the city’s idiosyncratic status symbols like grills (extravagantly jeweled dental caps) and “slab” (slow, low and bangin’) cars with reflective “candy paint.”Solange — echoing the artistic playbook of her sister, Beyoncé — paired the release of “When I Get Home” with an online film, which she directed and unveiled as an Apple Music exclusive. It’s a slightly abridged version of the entire album, accompanying non-narrative scenes of, among other things, black cowboys doing rodeo feats, a circular white arena holding group rituals in the desert, and dancers claiming Houston’s urban spaces. At the beginning and end of the film, Solange, in a glittering dress, dances alongside a mysteriously hooded Holy Ghost, revealed at the end as a black man. “The film is an exploration of origin, asking the question how much of ourselves do we bring with us versus leave behind in our evolution,” Solange said in a statement.The film visualizes “Sound of Rain” as a computer-animated extravaganza: a stadium full of dancers that turns into a garden, a burning man, people riding flying machines. The song is one of the album’s closest approaches to pop-R&B, with an ingenious beat, terse melodies and abundant countermelodies; the lyrics are cryptic and sunken into the mix, but at the end Solange reveals, “Sound of rain/helps me let go of the pain.” Another near-pop song is “Jerrod,” a promise of intimacy — “Give you all the depths of my wanting” — that Solange coos with the airy tenacity of Janet Jackson.For much of the album, Solange dissolves verse-chorus-verse into meditations and vamps. Keyboards supply rich chords that offer plenty of places to alight harmoniously; the beat is often an implied pulse that can and does leave behind 4/4 convention. In the chromatic haze, Solange ponders questions and considers life lessons in a few ambiguous words.In “Beltway,” she sings “don’t, don’t, don’t,” pauses, and continues, “you love me”; it’s impossible to tell where the couple stand. In “Dreams,” she recalls growing up with dreams and advises patience: “Dreams, they come a long way — not today.” She teeters on the verge of a relationship in “Time (is)” — “I was getting to feel/All the way” Solange sings — before its six-beat meter changes to five beats and Solange and Sampha each repeatedly sing an enigmatic line: “You’ve got to know.” And with hovering piano chords and hissing cymbal, “Down With the Clique” hints at the anticipation of Herbie Hancock’s “Maiden Voyage” as Solange reminisces, “We were rollin’ up the street/Chasing the divine.”In the interlude “Can I Hold the Mic,” Solange explains, rhapsodically: “I can’t be a singular expression of myself. There’s too many parts, too many spaces, too many manifestations, too many lines, too many curves, too many troubles, too many journeys, too many mountains, too many rivers, so many …” A keyboard follows each syllable of that speech, soon joined by chords to harmonize. The lilt of her voice alone could have carried these few seconds of content, but she and her musicians made the effort to match the rhythm and find its song. Because Houston is not her only home on this album; music is. Solange“When I Get Home” (Columbia)AdvertisementSupported byNutritional psychiatrists counsel patients on how better eating may be another tool in helping to ease depression and anxiety and may lead to better mental health.By Richard SchiffmanThe patient, a 48-year-old real estate professional in treatment for anxiety and mild depression, revealed that he had eaten three dozen oysters over the weekend.His psychiatrist, Dr. Drew Ramsey, an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at Columbia University, was impressed: “You’re the only person I’ve prescribed them to who came back and said he ate 36!”Dr. Ramsey, the author of several books that address food and mental health, is a big fan of oysters. They are rich in vitamin B12, he said, which studies suggest may help to reduce brain shrinkage. They are also well stocked with long chain omega-3 fatty acids, deficiencies of which have been linked to higher risk for suicide and depression. But shellfish are not the only food he is enthusiastic about. Dr. Ramsey is a pioneer in the field of nutritional psychiatry, which attempts to apply what science is learning about the impact of nutrition on the brain and mental health.Dr. Ramsey argues that a poor diet is a major factor contributing to the epidemic of depression, which is the top driver of disability for Americans aged 15 to 44, according to a report by the World Health Organization. Together with Samantha Elkrief, a chef and food coach who sits in on many of his patient sessions, he often counsels patients on how better eating may lead to better mental health.The irony, he says, is that most Americans are overfed in calories yet starved of the vital array of micronutrients that our brains need, many of which are found in common plant foods. A survey published in 2017 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported that only one in 10 adults meets the minimal daily federal recommendations for fruit and vegetables — at least one-and-a-half to two cups per day of fruit and two to three cups per day of vegetables. Nutritional psychiatrists like Dr. Ramsey prescribe antidepressants and other medications, where appropriate, and engage in talk therapy and other traditional forms of counseling. But they argue that fresh and nutritious food can be a potent addition to the mix of available therapies.Americans routinely change what they eat in order to lose weight, control their blood sugar levels and lower artery-clogging cholesterol. But Dr. Ramsey says that it is still rare for people to pay attention to the food needs of the most complex and energy-consuming organ in the body, the human brain.The patient Dr. Ramsey was seeing that day credits the nutritional guidance, including cutting down on many of the processed and fried foods and fatty meats that used to be part of his diet, with improving his mood and helping him overcome a long-term addiction to alcohol.“It’s one part of the whole package that helps alleviate my depression and helps me to feel better,” he said.Research on the impact of diet on mental functioning is relatively new, and food studies can be difficult to perform and hard to interpret, since so many factors go into what we eat and our general well-being. But a study of more than 12,000 Australians published in the American Journal of Public Health in 2016 found that individuals who increased the number of servings of fruits and vegetables that they ate reported that they were happier and more satisfied with their life than those whose diets remained the same. Another study of 422 young adults from New Zealand and the United States showed higher levels of mental health and well-being for those who ate more fresh fruits and vegetables. Interestingly, the same benefits did not accrue to those who ate canned fruits and vegetables. “We think this is due to the higher nutrient content of raw fruits and vegetables, particularly B vitamins and vitamin C, which are vulnerable to heat degradation,” said Tamlin Conner, a study author and senior lecturer at the University of Otago.One of the first randomized controlled trials to test whether dietary change may be effective in helping to treat depression was published in 2017. In the study, led by Felice Jacka, a psychiatric epidemiologist in Australia, participants who were coached to follow a Mediterranean diet for 12 weeks reported improvements in mood and lower anxiety levels. Those who received general coaching showed no such benefits. A Mediterranean diet, rich in whole grains, legumes and seafood as well as nutrient-dense leafy vegetables that are high in the fiber, promotes a diverse population of helpful bacteria in the gut. Research suggests that a healthy gut microbiome may be important in the processing of neurotransmitters like serotonin that regulate mood. “Our imaging studies show that the brains of people who follow a Mediterranean-style diet typically look younger, have larger volumes and are more metabolically active than people who eat a more typical Western diet,” said Dr. Lisa Mosconi, the director of the Women’s Brain Initiative at the Weill Cornell Medical Center in New York. Such brain benefits may be protective against the onset of dementia, she said.Dr. Mosconi noted that “there is no one diet that fits all” but advises patients to cut out processed foods, minimize meat and dairy and eat more whole foods like fatty fish, vegetables and whole grains and legumes to cut the risk of developing degenerative brain diseases associated with aging.She and Dr. Ramsey both recommend “eating the rainbow,” that is, consuming a wide array of colorful fruits and vegetables like peppers, blueberries, sweet potatoes, kale and tomatoes. Such foods are high in phytonutrients that may help to reduce harmful inflammation throughout the body, including the brain, and promote the growth of new brain cells throughout our adult years, they say.Dr. Emily Deans, a clinical instructor in psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, cautions that a plant-only diet may carry some risks. Some large observational studies suggest, for example, that strict vegetarians and vegans may have somewhat higher rates of depression and eating disorders than those who eat a more varied diet. Those on a meat-free diet may also need to take supplements to provide missing nutrients. “Some of the key nutrients for the brain, like long chain omega 3 fatty acids and vitamin B12, are simply not found in vegetable only diets,” says Dr. Deans. AdvertisementSupported byBy Reggie UgwuAUSTIN, Tex. — When she was around 11, Lupita Nyong’o’s parents brought home a cassette tape that changed her life. It was of the song “Regulate” by the West Coast hip-hop dynasts Warren G and Nate Dogg. Nyong’o and her five siblings, then living in a suburb of Nairobi, could only partially savor the lyrics of the song — a hearty, slang-ridden narrative of a thwarted mugging, topped with a soupçon of ceremonial group sex. But the music was hypnotic and evocative, suggesting an absorbing pocket universe. Nyong’o remembers wearing the tape out, rewinding it over and over until she knew all of the words by heart.Of the many apparently effortless but difficult-to-emulate things the 36-year-old star of “Us,” the new psychological horror film from Jordan Peele, has done in front of a camera, it’s worth taking a moment to consider the rapping. She’s done it twice, both times in videos filmed in the back seat of a car and posted on Instagram: the first to celebrate her three millionth follower and the second with her “Black Panther” co-star Letitia Wright, on the week of the film’s premiere.No one would call Nyong’o the next Warren G, but something about watching her rap disturbs an inner accountant. Here is a person whose very first appearance in a feature film, as the unforgettable Patsey in “12 Years a Slave” (2013), made her the seventh black woman and first black African to win an Academy Award for acting; a person whose doll-like facial symmetry and frictionless skin has landed her four solo appearances on the cover of Vogue; a person who speaks four languages and holds a graduate degree from Yale.And this same person, wearing dark sunglasses and facetiously calling herself Troublemaker, reveals that she also can rap, with appropriate levels of insouciance and conviction, and while remaining on beat. One suspects the divine dealer of dereliction of duty.Nyong’o discussed her hip-hop hobby on an afternoon earlier this month in Austin, where she had come to the South by Southwest film festival to unveil “Us,” due March 22. Like the rap videos, her foray into horror represents both an abstention from, and an implicit critique of, the Hollywood playbook for stars of her pedigree. Though she has been deliberate about creating a space for herself in an industry that wasn’t built for her, inhabiting and defending that space is another matter. Nyong’o’s performance in “Us,” already earning ecstatic reviews, is a shot across the bow to anyone who would deny her her due.It was overcast and humid. But we caught a breeze on a digressive walk around Lady Bird Lake on the edge of downtown. Nyong’o, who was dressed for an earlier panel discussion in a gray and black gingham pantsuit, black heels and matching round sunglasses, was trailed by two barrel-chested bodyguards, who kept a wide berth at their client’s polite but firm insistence. As we wound between naked trees down a semi-paved path, more than a few rubberneckers shot her adoring grins and sheepish waves.Her normal life is much lower maintenance. She’s lived in the Fort Greene neighborhood of Brooklyn for several years, having opted to stay on the East Coast after school, and spends quiet weekends going to the farmer’s market, or to local restaurants, where, she said with relief, “New Yorkers are too busy to recognize people.”But such normalcy grows scarcer by the day. Nyong’o spent much of the last two years preparing for, shooting and promoting Marvel’s “Black Panther,” in which she played Nakia, an idealistic Wakandan spy and the hero’s love interest. The film’s worldwide success may turn the Oscar-winning actress into a blockbuster heroine, a rarefied combination that “Us” is positioned to affirm.In it, she plays both Adelaide, the matriarch of the charming Wilson family, and Red, her bloodthirsty doppelgänger. Peele wrote the characters with Nyong’o in mind, and the two were close collaborators on interpreting the script. They met for the first time shortly after Nyong’o wrapped “Panther” (during production of that film, the actress and lifelong horror fan organized a cast field trip to see Peele’s surprise 2017 smash, “Get Out”) and quickly hit it off.“He was really inviting of my thoughts and ideas,” she said. “He’ll have this kernel of an idea that is so strong, and then he’ll keep adding to it and clarifying his intentions as he goes along. When he cast me in the movie, I joined him in that process.”In an interview, Peele said he was grateful for the second pair of eyes. “Right out of the gate she was asking questions about the characters that I didn’t know the answer to — and I knew everything about them,” he said.In the film’s story, as carefully as it can be described without spoilers, Adelaide embarks on a beachside vacation with her husband (fellow “Black Panther” alumnus Winston Duke) and their two children. It turns cataclysmic when another family of mysterious origin — their mirror images, but as filtered through a particularly ghastly nightmare — shows up on their doorstep.Peele seeded his script with cryptic prompts for the look and feel of Adelaide’s evil double. One concerned Red’s movement, which Peele conveyed with just two exceptionally creepy words: Queen cockroach.Another prompt indicated that Red had a scratchy voice, as if withered from lack of use. That seed — contained in a single sentence on the page — was fertilized when Nyong’o attended a fashion event where, to her surprise, she heard a speaker whose voice she thought sounded close to what Peele was describing. The speaker was Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who has spasmodic dysphonia, a neurological disorder that causes involuntary spasms of the larynx. In the film, Nyong’o’s hair-raising performance is defined by a haunting amplification of the disorder, which sounds like what might happen if you swallowed a cheese grater.Nyong’o’s set debut in costume as Red, for a long, unbroken monologue that fills in the character’s life story, was one of the most dramatic moments of the shoot.“She walked into the room and you just felt the air suck out of it,” Peele said. “The first time she did that scene was magic. I think we shot it like 10 times — just because we could — and it was always gold.”On the trail in Austin, Nyong’o was recalling how she fell in love with acting when something — someone — broke her focus. It was a large man in a faded T-shirt and white earbuds walking behind us, talking so loudly that we were struggling to hear one another. Nyong’o stopped and turned around. As the man passed by, she gave him a look of such elegant and devastating ferocity that I thought he might evaporate mid-stride, leaving only the earbuds behind. The bodyguards may not have been necessary after all.Her aunt had been a theater actress in Nairobi, and Nyong’o’s siblings and cousins would perform short skits at family gatherings. Acting was a way to win attention from (and manipulate the emotions of) her mother and father, who defied the stereotype of African parents by encouraging their children to pursue their passions.Both accompanied their daughter to the “Us” premiere. Nyong’o’s father, Peter, is a politician and the governor of Kisumu County in Kenya. As a young college professor and critic of former President Daniel arap Moi, he temporarily exiled himself and his family to Mexico City, where Nyong’o was born and given a Spanish name inspired by their adopted home. Her mother, Dorothy, is a public relations consultant and the managing trustee of the Africa Cancer Foundation, founded by her husband.Nyong’o credited her mother in particular for her self-confidence.“She’s dignified in the things she knows, and she’s dignified in the things she doesn’t,” she said. “She’s not afraid to admit that she has something to learn. And that quality is something that I seek to emulate — to be able to be comfortable in the discomfort of not knowing, or the feeling that you’re unprepared.”“Us” is only Nyong’o’s fourth live-action appearance in a film since her debut, and as a lead actress, she is still learning how and where she wants to apply herself. Many in her position would accept as much work as their schedules would bear, fearing the laws of gravity that can bring Hollywood prodigies abruptly back to earth. But here, too, Nyong’o has defied expectations. She believes her creativity is a finite resource and doesn’t offer it easily.“I’m not creative all the time, I’m just not,” she said. “Each role depletes me in some way, and I know that I do my best work when I’ve had time to remain fallow.”Being selective has meant saying no to star vehicles that other actresses would relish. After she won her Oscar, Nyong’o was approached to headline the American remake of the Mexican action thriller “Miss Bala,” but ultimately decided not to move forward with the project. (The film was released last month starring Gina Rodriguez.)“I just realized that whatever I’m interested in didn’t fit into the story, so I chose to bow out,” Nyong’o said. “I didn’t feel like I had the right perspective for it.”Her awareness that few historical models exist for female movie stars of color, particularly those with dark skin, has made her especially mindful of the example she is setting.With “Black Panther,” Nyong’o was part of a seismic shift away from whiteness as the unquestioned default in American popular cinema. “Us,” in which the race of the central characters — though affirmatively black — is never depicted as remarkable, gave her a chance to take that shift a step further.“It’s really not exceptional to be black, or to be African, and I think that’s a powerful statement in and of itself,” she said. “We can be seen and perceived as part and parcel of the global experience, because that is the truth.”In Austin, where the sun had finally emerged, we left the lake behind and turned toward downtown, where Nyong’o was due at her hotel to get dressed for the “Us” premiere later that night.Before we arrived, she told me a story about a time when she still felt beholden to the expectations of others. It was by way of explaining her excitement over another creative coup, as both producer and star of a coming mini-series adaptation of the novel “Americanah,” by the Nigerian writer Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.As a young, Kenyan-Mexican actress living and working in America, Nyong’o said she had made a habit of suppressing her accent, a natural composite of the places she’s lived.“I was only speaking in the American accent, because my feeling, and the feeling that was communicated to me in school, was that having an African accent would limit your possibilities,” she said.After she wrapped “12 Years a Slave,” newly facing the prospect of a public life, the inauthenticity of her voice became a source of anxiety. Encouragement came from a novel Nyong’o was reading at the time, “Americanah,” in which the main character, Ifemelu, is a Nigerian immigrant who also attends an Ivy League school and also has given up her natural tongue.Burdened eventually with shame and regret, longing to be seen — and heard — as her ordinarily extraordinary self, Ifemelu giddily repents.“I remember I was on the subway when I was reading that,” Nyong’o said. “I just wept.”AdvertisementSupported byWhat a brave Jew at a Nazi rally in New York tells us about our times.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistHis name is Isadore Greenbaum. He’s a Jew, a plumber’s helper from Brooklyn. He rushes onto the stage, beneath a portrait of George Washington flanked by swastikas. He tries to accost the Nazi who is denouncing the “Jewish-controlled press” and calling for a “white gentile-ruled” United States. Uniformed storm troopers beat him. Police officers drag him from the stage, pants ripped, arms raised in desperate entreaty. The mob howls in delight.It’s Feb. 20, 1939. More than 20,000 Nazi sympathizers are packed into Madison Square Garden as Greenbaum attempts to silence Fritz Kuhn, Bundesführer (so-called) of the German American Bund. Greenbaum has been enraged by Kuhn’s demand that the country be delivered from Jewish clutches and “returned to the American people who founded it.”The 26-year-old Jew is brought before a magistrate who, according to an account in this newspaper, tells him that “innocent people might have been killed.” To which Greenbaum retorts, “Do you realize that plenty of Jewish people might be killed with their persecution up there?”“Plenty” is an inadequate word for six million, but that was 1939 and human beings tend not to imagine the unimaginable. The pale, dismayed face of the young Jewish boy, arms raised, being rounded up in the Warsaw ghetto in 1943 is well known. Greenbaum’s expression of terrorized anguish in New York City presages it.All this is caught in Marshall Curry’s remarkable Oscar-nominated documentary short, “A Night at the Garden,” composed of footage from the time. Attacks on the press; the take-back-our-country cry; hymns to the true American (or German): There’s not much new, as Curry notes, about fascism.The movie brings to mind a phrase of Hannah Arendt’s that has haunted me about how most people will comply under conditions of terror but some will not: “No more is required,” she wrote, “and no more can reasonably be asked, for this planet to remain a place fit for human habitation.”Think the “Tank Man” of Tiananmen Square. Think Anton Schmid, the sergeant in Hitler’s army who helped Jews in the Vilnius ghetto and was executed in 1942. Think Ron Ridenhour, the helicopter gunner in Vietnam spurred by conscience to gather information that led to the official investigation into the My Lai massacre. Think Isadore Greenbaum. It is of the essence of such gestures that they appear futile, yet have the power to redeem humanity.Our age, too, is one of demagogues. What are we to make of our “ivory-gold colossus” — James Lasdun’s phrase in his brilliant new novel of the #MeToo era, “Afternoon of a Faun”? This colossus “at once menacing and cosmically aggrieved” who for two hours perorates before the Conservative Political Action Conference (only would-be or actual dictators afflicted with narcissistic disorders talk for that long) and declares: “I’m in love, and you’re in love. We’re all in love together.”Who, for President Trump, are his people in love? They are “our people.” Now, “our people” are not synonymous with the American people. This president, unlike his predecessors, has never seen himself as the president of all Americans.No, they are the CPAC crowd, his fans. They are the “tough people,” the people who could make things “very bad” if necessary — police and military and bikers who, the president claimed in an interview with Breitbart News this month, support him. He needs people in his thrall, like that Madison Square Garden crowd. As Lasdun wrote, “Nothing short of dominion over the entire universe could compensate for the wrongs done to him.”The wrongs, that is, of journalists, judges and Hollywood directors — anyone who thinks the president might just be a dangerous white nationalist charlatan. Why think that? Because Trump, from Day 1, has maligned brown people and Muslims; and, as president, he saw “very fine people on both sides” at the 2017 Charlottesville rally where white nationalists chanted “Jews will not replace us” and a woman who protested, Heather Heyer, was killed.I am not suggesting Trump resembles Hitler. That should be obvious — but not so obvious that I will refrain from writing this column. The white nationalist mass murderer of Muslims in New Zealand was not out of his mind in seeing Trump as a symbol of “renewed white identity and common purpose.” Trump’s love affair is with revanchist white people who don’t like the demographic look of the 21st century.Throughout the world today, from Saudi Arabia to the Philippines, from Guatemala to North Korea, bad things happen because the Trump administration winks at them. The United States as moral guardian, however flawed, has vanished.It’s not that Trump could be dangerous. He is dangerous. People die because the worst leaders know they enjoy the American president’s connivance. The debate on whether Trump is harmless, whether we should laugh away his grotesquerie, is misplaced. I have no doubt that the worst is yet to come. In his own mind, whatever the Mueller report contains, Trump cannot lose.Greenbaum and his wife moved to Southern California. A fisherman at Newport Pier, Greenbaum died in 1997. There was, as Philip Bump observed in The Washington Post, “a brief mention of his passing in the local news.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressThere is very little science behind most of the health claims made for CBD, the cannabis product turning up in cosmetics, foods and dietary supplements.With mainstream retailers Walgreens and CVS offering CBD skin products, it's easy to believe there must be something special about the trendy ingredient. But the claims are largely unproven, quality control standards don't exist and the legal status of CBD-infused food is in doubt.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration plans to hold a public hearing May 31 to gather more information on the science, manufacturing and sale of cannabis compounds such as CBD.A look at what we know as U.S. regulators work out what will and won't be allowed:WHAT IS CBD?CBD is one of more than 100 compounds found in marijuana. It's extracted using alcohol or carbon dioxide in factories. It's added to oils, mixed into creams and lotions and sold in candies and liquid drops.Widely sold online, CBD now is going mainstream. Prices range from $12 to $150 an ounce at high-end shops.CBD often comes from a cannabis plant known as hemp, which is defined by the U.S. government as having less than 0.3% THC. That's important because THC is what causes marijuana's mind-altering effect.CBD doesn't get people high, although it may be calming. Keep in mind some CBD products may contain THC, whether or not the label says so.People drug tested for work, addiction programs or because they take prescription opioids should take note: CBD products have caused people to fail urine drug screens.IS IT A MIRACLE CURE?If you believe the hype, CBD treats pain, relieves anxiety and both helps you sleep and keeps you focused.Most claims are based on studies in rats, mice or in test tubes. Some human research has been done, but in small numbers of people.One exception: For two rare seizure disorders, the evidence for CBD was strong enough to convince the FDA to approve GW Pharmaceutical's drug Epidiolex, which contains a purified form.The FDA has sent warning letters to companies marketing products with claims for CBD's effects on cancer, Alzheimer's disease, fibromyalgia and drug addiction.Only drugs that have been reviewed by the FDA as safe and effective can make claims that they treat or prevent diseases or medical conditions. Many CBD producers attempt to sidestep the issue by using only vague language about general health and well-being.ANY SIDE EFFECTS?Scant research means not much is known about side effects either. In epilepsy research, CBD changed the way the body processed other drugs. That suggests CBD could interact with medications in ways we still don't know about.The most common side effects of the CBD drug Epidiolex include sleepiness, decreased appetite, diarrhea, increases in liver enzymes, exhaustion, rash and infections. The potential for liver injury and other risks can be handled with medical supervision, former FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said earlier this month, but less is known about how that would be managed without oversight. And there are questions about overlap if multiple CBD products are used.IS IT LEGAL?For now, the FDA has said CBD is not allowed as an ingredient in food, drinks or dietary supplements.In stating its position, the FDA cited a provision of the law prohibiting food makers from using active drug ingredients or those still undergoing substantial research. But the agency doesn't have the resources to police all the CBD products that are already available, said Marc Scheineson, a former FDA official."They're not going to pull a thousand products from the market," he said.The FDA's authority is over interstate commerce, and local officials have taken differing approaches. In New York, Los Angeles and elsewhere, officials are warning eateries to stop selling it in food and drinks. Maine passed a law allowing it in foods and other products in the state.Skin creams and cosmetics may be on safer footing with the FDA, but that too remains uncertain, said Camille Gourdet of RTI International, a nonprofit research institute in Durham, North Carolina. Though cosmetics aren't subject to premarket approval by the FDA, they could run afoul of regulations if they make specific health claims.Marijuana itself is illegal under federal law; most states that have legalized it allow marijuana-infused foods and candies, called edibles.ARE CBD LABELS ACCURATE?What you buy may contain much less CBD than the label states — or much more. It may include more THC than you want and it may be contaminated with mold or pesticides. Ask to see testing reports.A 2017 study in the Journal of the American Medical Association found 70% of CBD products were mislabeled. Researchers used an independent lab to test 84 products from 31 companies."You're really flying by the seat of your pants when you buy this stuff," said author Marcel Bonn-Miller of University of Pennsylvania.A product labeled as containing 100 milligrams of CBD may only have 5 milligrams or it may have 200, said Bonn-Miller, now an adviser for a company that sells CBD and other cannabis products. He did not work in the industry when he did the research."I wouldn't trust any of it until I knew independently it was safe," Bonn-Miller said.WHAT'S AHEAD?CBD research is planned or underway for cancer, autism, diabetic neuropathy, fibromyalgia, chronic pain, alcoholism with PTSD and psychiatric conditions. Results will take years, but some people aren't waiting."They are vulnerable and really hoping to feel better," said Karen Hande, a nurse practitioner at Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center in Nashville.She became an expert in CBD because so many of her cancer patients were trying it. She tells them the evidence isn't enough to back the claims, but "they want to believe something is going to work."___Follow AP's complete marijuana coverage: https://apnews.com/MarijuanaAdvertisementSupported byA killer determined to make terrorism go viral beat a system designed to keep the worst of the web out of sight. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.As authorities rushed to stop a gunman on a mass killing spree in New Zealand, engineers, programmers and content moderators around the globe were scrambling to keep the rampage from going viral. It didn’t work. The terrorist in Christchurch killed 50 people at two mosques on Friday, livestreaming part of the attack on Facebook. The original video was taken down within an hour. But copies proliferated across the major platforms. On Saturday night, Facebook announced that it had removed 1.5 million copies of the video, with 1.2 million blocked at the moment they were uploaded. YouTube declined to give numbers, although its chief product officer told The Washington Post that at times, a copy of the video was being uploaded every second. After decades of shunning responsibility for user content, Big Tech is slowly making its products safer for society — banning anti-vaccine misinformation, for instance, and cracking down on political disinformation. More moderation comes with heavy risks, of course. Decisions about the limits of free speech would shift to companies whose priorities are driven by shareholders. But the viral spread of the Christchurch shooting video shows the limits of the content moderation machine in the face of technologies that have been designed to be attention traps. Stricter moderation or filtering systems are not the answer. It must be a priority to redesign technology to respect the common good, instead of ignoring it.There is a special urgency when it comes to mass killings, since media amplification can inspire copycat killings, and only so much can be done in a crisis where every hour counts. Filtering systems have been relatively successful where time is not of the essence — copyright infringement never kills anyone, even if it stays up for a week. On longer time scales, moderation works reasonably well. For about a decade or longer, the tech companies have automatically filtered out child pornography in a partnership with the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, which maintains a database of “fingerprinted” videos. Starting in 2016, major platforms adapted that technology to filter for “terrorist” content. But this kind of filtering only works when new content matches known banned content through a form of digital fingerprinting. Although the video of the New Zealand attack was fingerprinted immediately, countless thousands of people beat the filter over and over again by recutting, editing, watermarking and modifying the video itself. While harder to find on major social media platforms, copies of the video are still easily found online.It was once the sole province of the press to think about how to cover such tragedies in a responsible way. As media consumption shifts online, it is now on the tech companies to use their considerable ingenuity to grapple with mitigating the public health crisis of mass killings.Keeping the internet, or at the very least social media, free from vile content is grueling work. The experience of content moderators for Facebook raises troubling questions about the future of human moderation and the wider danger that online content poses to public health. Repeated exposure to conspiracy theories — say, that the earth is flat or that the Holocaust didn’t happen — turns out to sway content moderators, an effect that may very well be playing out in the population at large. Repeated exposure to images of violence and sexual exploitation often leaves moderators with post-traumatic stress disorder. Moderators have reported crying on the job or sleeping with guns by their side. Turnover is high, pay is low, and although they have access to on-site counselors, many moderators develop symptoms of PTSD after leaving the job.We don’t know if moderators are canaries for the social-media-consuming public at large or if their heavy dose of the worst of the web makes them outliers. Is repeated exposure to conspiracy theories — often given boosts by recommendation algorithms — swaying the general public, in some cases leading to public health emergencies like the measles outbreak? Is extremist propaganda fueling a surge in right-wing violence?The killer in New Zealand sought to hijack the attention of the internet, and the millions of uploads of his video — both attempted and achieved — were a natural consequence of what the platforms are designed to promote in users: the desire to make content go viral.In the midst of the crisis this weekend, YouTube resorted to temporarily disabling the ability to search recently uploaded videos. It’s not the first time a platform has disabled a function of its product in response to tragedy. In July, WhatsApp limited message forwarding in India in the wake of lynchings fueled by rumors spread by users of the service. The change became global in January in an effort to fight “misinformation and rumors.”It’s telling that the platforms must make themselves less functional in the interests of public safety. What happened this weekend gives an inkling of how intractable the problem may be. Internet platforms have been designed to monopolize human attention by any means necessary, and the content moderation machine is a flimsy check on a system that strives to overcome all forms of friction. The best outcome for the public now may be that Big Tech limits its own usability and reach, even if that comes at the cost of some profitability. Unfortunately, it’s also the outcome least likely to happen.AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCOLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — Forrest Gregg, the great Hall of Fame lineman for the mighty Green Bay Packers of the 1960s that Vince Lombardi called the "finest player I ever coached," died Friday at age 85.Barbara Gregg said her husband of 59 years died in Colorado Springs from complications of Parkinson's disease."I lost my sweetheart this morning," she said. "It's awful. He died in my arms."She said that in the last two weeks her husband received a constant flow of calls from former teammates and players telling him he'd made such a big difference in their lives."I'm overwhelmed at the amount of people that loved Forrest, of the number of players that said he made men out of them," she said. "Forrest loved people. He loved everybody. He loved his children. He loved me. And it just broke my heart. My heart is broken."She said the funeral will be sometime next week in Colorado Springs and open to the public.Other survivors include their son, Forrest Gregg Jr., of Cincinnati, and daughter, Karen Gregg-Spehar, of Santa Fe, New Mexico.Hall of Fame president David Baker described Gregg, who was enshrined in 1977, as a "giant" who "exemplified greatness during a legendary career.""He was the type of player who led by example and, in doing so, raised the level of play of all those around him," Baker said. "Forrest symbolized many great traits and virtues that can be learned from this game to inspire people from all walks of life."The flag at the hall will be flown at half-staff in Gregg's honor.Gregg, who earned the nickname "Iron Man" for playing in a then-record 188 consecutive games during his career, was diagnosed with Parkinson's in October 2011. He quickly embarked on a campaign to raise public awareness about the incurable disease, urging others to seek treatment early enough to delay the degenerative effects on both the mind and body.His family and his neurologist said the disease may have been related to numerous concussions he suffered during his playing career in the 1950s at SMU, and from 1956-71 with the Packers and Dallas Cowboys.Gregg never blamed football for his health ailments, however. He refused to join concussion lawsuits against the NFL and said he still would have chosen to play the sport if he'd known there would be a hefty price to pay later in life.In an interview with The Associated Press in 2013, Gregg said he didn't begrudge those who sued the league, but he had his pensions from his playing and coaching days, and "I don't need anything from anybody but what I earned."A guard and tackle, Gregg is one of four NFL players to win a-half dozen NFL championships, including the first two Super Bowls with the Packers. Gregg finished his career with another Super Bowl title with the Cowboys in 1971. The six-time All-Pro and nine-time Pro Bowler was elected to the NFL's all-decade team of the 1960s and to its 75th anniversary team.He went on to coach in the NFL for 11 years with the Browns (1975-77), Bengals (1980-83) and Packers (1984-87).Bengals president Mike Brown on Friday recalled his good friend as one who got the best out of his players."He was demanding. The players didn't try to cut corners," Brown said in a statement. "They went out and did what they had to do, and what we were doing worked. We were somewhat ahead of the curve at the time."Packers coach Matt LeFleur tweeted a famous photo of a mud-caked Gregg and wrote, "I'd like to extend my deepest sympathies to the family of a true Packers legend, Forrest Gregg. This picture has been hanging in my home office for the last 10 years and serves as a great reminder of what a tough competitor Forrest was."After playing 15 NFL seasons, Gregg won 75 games as an NFL head coach and guided the Bengals to their first Super Bowl during the 1981 season, when they lost 26-21 to Joe Montana and the San Francisco 49ers.Yet, "the finest bunch of players I was ever around," Gregg told The AP in 2013, "were the courageous kids at SMU" that went just 3-19 from 1989-90.Gregg was hired at his alma mater to restore integrity to an SMU program that was handed the "death penalty" in the mid-1980s for paying players. They went 2-9 in 1989 upon their return and 1-10 the next year, after which Gregg became SMU's athletic director."That was one of the most enjoyable times of my football life," Gregg told The AP. "Those kids restored dignity to the Hilltop."Going public with his Parkinson's diagnosis to promote understanding of the disease that affects more than 1 million Americans, "was probably helpful a little bit," said Dr. Rajeev Kumar of the Rocky Mountain Movement Disorders Center and the Parkinson's expert who diagnosed Gregg in 2011. "It's always good when somebody who's known and respected lends their weight to the importance of research and education."Gregg suffered countless concussions during his college and pro seasons, and Kumar said those may very well have been the trigger to Parkinson's, although there's no way to know for sure.Gregg continued to cast a dignified, larger-than-life presence even as the disease took its toll, stooping his once granite shoulders and turning his booming baritone into a halting whisper over the last few years.In his last interview with The AP he said he hardly recognized the NFL anymore because it was so different from the sport he played and coached. Despite that, his love for the game endured.He lauded commissioner Roger Goodell for making safety a priority and praised the league for enhancing its concussion protocol and cracking down on illegal hits to the head, measures he prayed would lead to less suffering as today's players age.AdvertisementSupported byPeople continue to struggle with the idea that women are the authorities on their own bodies. By Laurie EdwardsMs. Edwards is a science writer. I have a rare and painful genetic respiratory disorder called primary ciliary dyskinesia. I was 23 when doctors diagnosed my condition, but I had been sick my whole life. Again and again, I was told that I was suffering from nothing more than stress — that it was all in my head.This is a common experience for young women. We have long known that women with some conditions are more likely than men to be under-treated for pain, and that doctors are more likely to dismiss reports of illness as psychosomatic when they come from women. Now, a recent study from Yale researchers shows how early this gender bias starts. The study found that when adult participants were asked to rate the perceived pain of a child receiving a finger prick to draw blood, they attributed more pain to the child they thought was a boy than they did to the child they thought was a girl.The study’s authors associate these findings with “explicit gender stereotypes” that characterize men as more stoic about their pain and women as more emotional — and therefore, less credible.An estimated 20 to 35 percent of adolescents experience chronic pain. According to a 2017 study, doctors are significantly more likely to dismiss the pain symptoms of young female patients than those of male ones. This can cause lasting damage to the relationships between doctors and their patients.Endometriosis is a useful if sobering frame for viewing the consequences. Up to one in 10 women have endometriosis, a painful, debilitating condition in which tissue that normally lines the uterus instead grows outside of it. Symptoms can begin in adolescence, but young women are often told they simply have painful periods. It can take years to get a diagnosis. The longer it takes, the more women suffer, and the harder it becomes to treat the condition.Many of the young women with chronic pain I’ve interviewed have stories about this culture of disbelief. They are often told their pain is caused by stress. Repeatedly finding themselves ignored can chip away at their self-confidence. Over time, fear of being seen as whiny or weak led some young women to underreport their pain, making it even harder to get treatment.One patient described being “shy, unwilling and unsure of how to stick up for myself.” For years, she said, “it didn’t occur to me that I could argue with the doctor’s results, even if they were contrary to what my body was telling me.” But this isn’t just about the young female patient in pain and how doctors respond to her. It is about the young woman narrating her suffering, and how we all respond to her.Consider sexual harassment. The American Association of University Women surveyed nearly 2,000 students in grades 7 to 12 and found that nearly half reported having experienced some form of sexual harassment. Girls were significantly more likely than boys to be harassed, girls’ harassment tended to be more physical and intrusive, and girls reported more longer-term consequences, like trouble sleeping and increased absences from school.Just 12 percent of girls who experienced harassment reported it to an adult at school, most likely for reasons including fear of not being believed, fear of retaliation and social isolation, the failure of schools to respond, and confusion about what actually constitutes harassment.In college, an estimated one in five women are sexually assaulted, and just 20 percent of assaults are reported, again with fear of not being believed as one of the biggest barriers.Girls have good reason to feel this way. Take the case of Dr. Larry Nassar, the notorious Michigan State University and U.S.A. Gymnastics physician who was sentenced last year to 40 to 175 years in prison for sex crimes. Michigan State was first alerted to concerns about Dr. Nassar back in 1997, but the complaints were ignored. When he finally faced a trial, many of his more than 160 victims described the lasting negative impact of having their experiences invalidated by the adults in their lives.The #MeToo movement has done a lot to encourage women to share their experiences, and we now need those conversations to translate into meaningful institutional and cultural changes. The research on how little we acknowledge young girls’ pain suggests we need to start with something basic: When girls tell us about their experiences with their bodies, we need to listen.Laurie Edwards is the author of “In the Kingdom of the Sick: A Social History of Chronic Illness in America.”AdvertisementSupported byThe president will need to start listening to health experts if he’s going to eradicate the virus in the country.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.The H.I.V. outbreak in Scott County, Ind., which began in late 2014 and ultimately resulted in some 200 new infections, was almost entirely avoidable. As far back as 2008, health officials had advised the state to implement needle exchange programs in light of growing injection drug use. Those calls went unheeded. By 2011, it was clear that an H.I.V. outbreak was brewing in the region, but elected officials did not change course. Nor did they take other basic steps — like expanding access to evidence-based treatment programs for opioid use disorder, or increasing government funding for H.I.V. testing — that might have brought the problem under control.Then, in 2013, state budget cuts forced the region’s lone H.I.V. testing provider (a Planned Parenthood clinic) to close its doors. By early 2015, scores of residents were newly infected with the virus, and even the local sheriff was pushing the state to lift its ban on needle exchange programs. Mike Pence, then Indiana’s governor, balked. Despite scientific consensus to the contrary, Mr. Pence worried that such a program would only encourage more injection drug use.By the time the governor finally relented, federal health officials were estimating that more than 100 people in Scott County had already been infected with the virus. Mr. Pence’s response was tepid: He signed a bill temporarily allowing needle exchanges in the outbreak’s epicenter, but he provided no state funding for that program and made the requirements for participation strict and burdensome. For good measure, he also upgraded needle possession without a prescription from a misdemeanor to a felony.According to a study published in September in the scientific journal The Lancet H.I.V., nearly all of the 215 H.I.V. infections that resulted from the outbreak could have been prevented —  if the state’s elected officials had more quickly heeded the advice of public health experts.Mr. Pence’s slow, own-foot-shooting response to the H.I.V. crisis in his home state bears many lessons for his current boss, President Trump, who recently announced a plan to eradicate H.I.V. in the United States by 2030.Mr. Trump’s plan has some promising features. Developed by career civil servants with decades of experience combating H.I.V., it would provide the first new funding for the domestic fight against this disease in many years. And it would deploy a majority of those dollars to communities where the virus is most prevalent and resources most urgently needed.But as The Times reported this week, the president’s proposed budget for the initiative — $291 million for the first year — falls far short of what’s needed to reach the stated goal. And like Mr. Pence’s efforts in Indiana, many of the Trump administration’s other policies stand to undermine this initiative. Roughly one million Americans live with H.I.V. today; one million more are at risk of contracting it. A vast majority of those who are infected live in marginalized communities, and 15 percent of them have not been diagnosed. Conquering the disease will require making health care as widely accessible as possible. But the same budget proposal that would offer new money for fighting H.I.V. seeks to cut funds for Medicaid, a program that health officials say is a bedrock for people living with the virus. (It’s no surprise that the region of the country with the highest H.I.V. burden — the South — also has the lowest participation in Medicaid expansion under the Affordable Care Act.)Stopping the infection from spreading — as it still does to some 40,000 previously uninfected Americans each year — will require evidence-based sex education and a large, concerted effort to test everyone who is at risk of contracting the virus. But the administration has worked aggressively to undermine Planned Parenthood, one of the few organizations to provide easily accessible H.I.V. testing in low-income communities around the country. And the Department of Health and Human Services has pushed abstinence-only programs that experts say severely undermine disease-prevention efforts.Nudging those who are infected into treatment, and helping them stay the course, will require active campaigns to help remove the stigma, shame and fear of a diagnosis. Instead, the Trump administration has repeatedly supported or enacted policies that result in further marginalization of L.G.B.T.Q. communities, which still suffer a disproportionate burden of H.I.V. infection. To eliminate H.I.V., the cost of medications capable of treating and preventing the disease will have to be sharply reduced (they currently cost tens of thousands of dollars a year per person). But so far, the administration has shown no appetite for using existing laws to override the patents of these drugs and produce them at cost — a move that may offer the best chance of getting these lifesaving medications to the two million or so people who need them.More than two decades have passed since scientists first developed these medications. The latest plan might enable the United States to finally realize their full potential, but only if elected officials resolve the incongruities in their own policies. AdvertisementSupported byBy Jason BaileyWednesday’s unveiling of the first image of a black hole — found in the Messier 87 galaxy, roughly 55 million light-years away — has captured the imagination of scientists and amateur astronomers around the world. But of all the intriguing and humbling phenomena to be found in outer space, why are black holes such a particular fascination?Maybe it has something to do with science-fiction, which has long exploited the narrative possibilities offered by these inescapable regions of space (as in the movie “High Life,” which debuts this week). What follows is a look at some of the best streamable movies in the black hole canon: We can’t guarantee all the science, but we can tell you where to find them.[Read about the first ever image of a black hole.]How to watch: Rent or buy it on Amazon, iTunes, Vudu, Google Play and YouTube.Walt Disney Productions had a humble goal for this (then) big-budget production: Two years after “Star Wars,” the company wanted a blockbuster space opera of its own. According to the book “The Mouse Machine,” by J. P. Telotte, the studio took notice of the increasing chatter in scientific circles about black holes (Archibald Wheeler had coined the term in 1967), revising the original script and focusing on the crew of a deep space mission and its discovery of not only a black hole but also another ship that somehow managed to elude the gravitational pull. Reviews were mixed, and the film recouped only its costs. But it did introduce an important new element to Disney filmmaking: computer-generated animation.How to watch: Stream it on The Criterion Channel; rent or buy it on Amazon, iTunes, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube.Perhaps no single scientist shaped more of our contemporary thought and fascination with black holes than the theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking, whose ideas about black holes, quantum mechanics, radiation and relativity were neatly packaged in his 1988 best-seller “A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to Black Holes.” Four years later, the director Errol Morris (“The Thin Blue Line”) released his documentary film adaptation of the book, featuring extensive interviews with Hawking and his colleagues, friends and family, intermingling his biography with vivid and ingenious visualizations of his thoughts and theories. Hawking’s work is dense and complex, but Morris’s dazzling film furthers the source book’s mission of making the science of space a bit more understandable to the layperson.How to watch: Stream it on Showtime; rent or buy it on Amazon, iTunes, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube.The new image from Messier 87 was possible, in a large part, because of a network of radio antennas known as the Event Horizon Telescope. That name has a logical tie to its target: The event horizon is “the edge of a black hole, the point of no return,” according to the Times reporter Dennis Overbye, who notes, “beyond the event horizon, not even light can escape the black hole’s gravitational pull.” But it will summon a different connotation to movie fans. Paul W.S. Anderson’s “Event Horizon” makes black holes into horror fodder, telling the story of a vessel that creates an artificial black hole in order to make a space travel wormhole. Suffice to say, things go very wrong.How to watch: Stream it on Amazon; rent or buy it on Amazon, iTunes, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube.Science-fiction television shows, like the later iterations of “Star Trek” and “Battlestar Galactica,” have made black holes a mainstay of their storytelling. But the “Star Trek” film series hasn’t had much use for them, with the notable exception of J.J. Abrams’s 2009 reboot of the franchise. Nero (Eric Bana), the Romulan villain of the film, uses the principles of the black hole for dastardly ends, creating an artificial black hole out of “red matter” to destroy the planet Vulcan. But then a real black hole creates a time warp that sends Mr. Spock back in time to help Captain Kirk and his own younger self try to stop Nero. (It all makes sense in the movie.)How to watch: Rent or buy it on Amazon, iTunes, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube.This Kubrick-inspired sci-fi adventure from Christopher Nolan hangs a key plot point on black holes: The deep-space crew at its center, led by the former NASA pilot Joseph Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), is sent to explore a wormhole leading to potentially habitable planets. But the wormhole’s proximity to a black hole causes gravitational time dilation; in the brief time Cooper and another crew member (Anne Hathaway) spend exploring one of the planets, 23 years of earth time elapse, causing duress for the scientists. Nolan, known for his meticulousness, took great pains to try to ensure that the science of the film checked out, and its rendering of the black hole was considered by many to be the most realistic yet in a fiction film.How to watch: Stream it on Netflix; rent or buy it on Amazon, iTunes, Google Play, Vudu and YouTube.“Mr. Morris conveys something of what Dr. Hawking thinks about black hole evaporation, imaginary time and curved space,” The Times’s Timothy Ferris wrote about Morris’s “A Brief History of Time.” “But for most viewers, these exotic ideas will be overshadowed by the human drama of the great physicist’s triumph over adversity.” The director James Marsh focused firmly on that drama in this biopic, with an Oscar-winning Eddie Redmayne as a young Hawking and an Oscar-nominated Felicity Jones as his future wife, Jane. As they struggle to come to terms with a motor neuron disorder that confined him to a wheelchair for the rest of his life, he develops his initial theories about the visibility of black holes — though there is not much time to get into scientific specifics.AdvertisementSupported byCrimeBy Marilyn StasioJohn McMahon is one of those rare writers who seem to have sprung out of nowhere. His first novel, THE GOOD DETECTIVE (Putnam, $27), which is pretty much perfect, features a decent if flawed hero battling personal troubles while occupied with a murder case of great consequence to his community.The community in question is Mason Falls, a patch of “old Georgia dirt” deep in tobacco country where race relations are stable but could easily be upended by some headline-making atrocity — an act of barbarism like the torture, lynching and murder of a 15-year-old African-American named Kendrick Webster.Paul Thomas Marsh, who goes by P.T. and narrates his story in cleareyed, cool fashion, is a cop who has lost his wife and only child in a horrific car accident. “Someone came along and took my responsibilities away. Took away my family. And all they left me with was absolute justice” — which he enforces without much regard for the rules. But P.T. is so close to being out of control that when he’s roughing up Virgil Rowe, a “neo-Nazi who beats up strippers,” he almost kills the guy.Not a good move, since Virgil turns out to be the main suspect in Kendrick’s murder. And a really bad move when Virgil is found dead and P.T.’s fingerprints are all over the place. Surely Virgil was alive when P.T. stormed out. Or was he?Once in a while that fabled Southern lyricism surfaces (when, say, McMahon offers a glimpse of Spanish moss “that swayed in the morning light like a family of ghosts”), but for the most part his writing is painfully, almost unbearably, matter-of-fact, especially in the interior monologue when Kendrick narrates his own murder. (“He saw the moon. He’d just learned about waxing and waning moons in science, and this was a waxing gibbous. A few days before a full moon.”) And when P.T. finally shakes himself out of his funk and starts policing the region for evidence of a grass-roots militia stirring up racial unrest, the nasty sounds coming out of strip clubs and biker bars are nothing like the sweet, syrupy voices of the Old South.♦People everywhere think their next-door neighbor might be a serial killer. What? You say they don’t? Well, it’s a good thing nosy Henrietta Mazur believes the worst of Matthew Dolamore, because her unneighborly hunch galvanizes BEFORE SHE KNEW HIM (Morrow/HarperCollins, $26.99). Peter Swanson’s neatly knotted suspense story is set in a pleasant Boston suburb where Henrietta and Matthew live side by side with their spouses, the only childless couples on the block.Not that Hen feels deprived; she loves her work creating “grotesque, surreal tableaus” to illustrate children’s books. (“Hen had always had a morbid streak.”) Matthew is even busier, holding down a day job teaching history while murdering people on the side.Hen knows that Matthew is a killer, and Matthew knows she knows. (“They had a secret, the two of them.”) But suffering as she does from a sporadically debilitating bipolar disorder, she might become a modern Cassandra, dismissed as an unreliable witness. This can’t end well.♦A lot goes on in Washington, D.C., outside the precincts of the White House and Capitol Hill. And that’s what David Swinson writes about in his streetwise private-eye novels featuring Frank Marr, a forcibly retired cop and mostly reformed cocaine addict. TRIGGER (Mulholland, $27) finds Marr on another thankless case, trying to clear a close friend on the D.C. police force who’s been accused of shooting an unarmed teenager.This is the kind of investigation that takes Marr away from tourist spots and into tough neighborhoods where he mingles with foulmouthed punks who are a lot more interesting to read about than politicians. “I’ve been known to go rogue,” Marr admits, an understatement from someone who works well outside the law. This is a guy who lies, steals, bullies people and has tossed his share of mistakes into the Potomac. “I have to admit, only to myself, that I love when something like that happens,” he acknowledges. “It gives me an adrenaline boost, a bit like coke.”♦As scenic murders go, it’s hard to beat the dead man floating in the swimming pool of Le Chant d’Eau, a stone farmhouse hilltop-high in DEATH IN PROVENCE (Harper, $26.99). Plot and characters pale beside the setting of this first mystery by Serena Kent, the nom de plume of the husband-and-wife team of Robert Rees and Deborah Lawrenson.Newly divorced and determined to dodge grandmother duties back home in England, Penelope Kite impulsively buys a rundown property overlooking the Luberon Valley, thus providing steady work for every craftsman in the region.Penelope faithfully performs the duties of all such conventional heroines, meeting her colorful neighbors, visiting the markets, sampling the cuisine, exploring the historical attractions and proving herself a better detective than the local gendarmerie. Formulaic? You bet. But who could resist a vacation in Provence?Marilyn Stasio has covered crime fiction for the Book Review since 1988. Her column appears twice a month.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.AdvertisementSupported byBy Frank LitskyJohnny (Lam) Jones, a former Olympic gold medal sprinter and swift-footed football star at the University of Texas who never lived up to his promise as a football professional with the Jets, died on Friday. He was 60.His death was announced by the university, which said it came “after a lengthy battle with cancer.” Texas news organizations said he died in a hospital in Round Rock, Tex., north of Austin.Jones learned that he had multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, in 2005. Because he did not have health insurance, former Texas teammates raised money for his medical costs.Jones was phenomenon at his central Texas high school, in the city of Lampasas, running world-class times of 9.21 seconds for 100 yards and 10.14 for 100 meters.After graduating, he competed that summer in the 1976 Montreal Olympics, finishing sixth in the 100 meters and winning a gold medal running the second leg of the United States 4x100-meter relay team.He then enrolled at Texas, where his speed landed him on both the track and football teams. He would go on to become a record-setting All-American sprinter for the university.In his freshman year he ran in the same backfield as another Johnny Jones. To distinguish the two, Coach Darrell Royal gave one the nickname Lam, for Jones’s hometown, and the other the nickname Ham, because that Jones came from Hamlin, Tex.Lam Jones, at 5 feet 11 and 190 pounds, was a wide receiver in his last three years as a Longhorn, 1977-79, and an All-American in his senior year. He scored eight touchdowns of 45 yards or more at Texas and was chosen the team’s most valuable player in 1978.In the 1980 National Football League draft, the Jets traded two first-round picks to be able to move up and make Jones their first pick (and the draft’s second choice overall). He signed for $2.1 million over six years (the equivalent of $6.8 million today); it was pro football’s first million-dollar contract.But his pro career was an injury-ridden disappointment. In his first season in New York, he caught 25 passes but dropped 18. In his second season, his main job was to run in plays from the Jets’ offensive coordinator, Joe Walton, to the quarterback, Richard Todd. The New York Times sports columnist Dave Anderson called him “the Jets’ millionaire messenger.”There were a few highlights for Jones that season, however, including catching a 47-yard touchdown pass from Todd in a playoff-clinching 28-3 victory over the Green Bay Packers at Shea Stadium in New York. (The Jets, in the playoffs for the first time in 12 years, went on to lose to the Buffalo Bills in a wild-card game the next week.)In five seasons (1980-84) with the Jets, Jones suffered a broken collarbone, a pulled hamstring and a torn finger tendon. He spent 1985 and 1986 on the Jets’ injured reserve list. The next year, the Jets traded him to the San Francisco 49ers.“I know how they remember me in New York: I’m the guy they blew the draft pick on,” Jones told The Daily News in 2005. “That’s O.K. I didn’t live up to their expectations, but I didn’t live up to my own expectations, either.”He did worse in San Francisco: The 49ers promptly waived him in training camp. He then joined the Dallas Cowboys, who dropped him after he missed a morning meeting because, the team said, he had been drinking and had overslept.Indeed, he told The News that he had struggled with alcohol and cocaine addictions both during his playing days and afterward.As a pro, Jones caught 138 passes for 2,322 yards and 13 touchdowns. His best season was in 1983, with 43 catches, 734 yards and four touchdowns.“Games and challenges never scared Johnny,” Bill Little, an assistant athletic director at Texas, recalled on a Texas football website in 2004. “People did. Folks thought he was just extremely shy and sometimes rude. Years later, they would diagnose the condition he had as social anxiety disorder.”In 1988, his playing days over and living again in Texas, Jones served a month in jail after pleading guilty to indecency with a child, a 12-year-old girl. The episode was a turning point, he later said, compelling him to seek treatment for his addictions.“I needed to get my personal life in order,” he was quoted as saying. “I came back to live in the real world.”He sold cars and running tracks, made motivational speeches to high school athletes and was active with the Texas Special Olympics.In 1979, Jones donated his Olympic gold medal to the Special Olympics. Years later, he explained why: “I’d never seen anyone stop in a race and help someone who had fallen get up.”John Wesley Jones II was born on April 4, 1958, in Lawton, Okla., to John W. Jones and Mary Jones Dillon. His father was an Army sergeant who was later transferred to Texas.Lam Jones was married and divorced three times. There was no immediate information available about survivors.Jones was philosophical about the up-and-down course his life had taken. He was quoted by Bill Little on the Texas website: “I got to run in the Olympics, got a great education and played for the University of Texas and played for the New York Jets.”AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareThe answer is worth knowing. The research is lacking.By Aaron E. CarrollI’m a pediatrician, and when I see adolescents in my clinic, I ask them if they are drinking alcohol (among other risky activities). Then I counsel them if they answer in the affirmative. I want young people to be safe.But doctors lack the evidence base — we don’t have enough studies — to know how much of a difference this makes. Here’s why we may want an answer. Excessive drinking is responsible for 88,000 deaths per year in the United States, about one in 10 deaths among working-age adults. The cost in 2010 was almost $250 billion.And drinking is a serious problem among adolescents. More than 9 percent of those 12 to 17 years drink alcohol, and almost 5 percent engaged in binge drinking in the last month. We know how to screen people for alcohol misuse. It’s not hard. The Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test-Consumption asks three simple questions: how often people drink, how much, and how often they drink heavily. The Single Alcohol Screening Question asks simply, “How many times in the past year have you had 5 (men)/4 (women) or more drinks in a day?” The latter is positive (when the answer is more than once) in about 80 percent of people who have unhealthy use of alcohol (as defined by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism) and negative in about 80 percent of people who do not. That’s pretty good for a quick one-question screen.There are also specific screening tools that have been validated for pregnant women, adolescents and older people.Asking a question in a visit costs very little, other than time. It also has few harms. So why not recommend it for everyone?Screening is useful when a condition is prevalent, when we can screen in a cost-effective manner, when early diagnosis makes a difference, and when we know that acting on that screen will make a difference.Dr. Susan Curry, the immediate past chairwoman of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, told me: “There have simply not been enough studies that assess the effects of screening and behavioral counseling in adolescents to address this issue. In addition, many of the existing studies have been conducted in school settings, and it is unclear if the results would translate to primary care.”The effects of behavioral counseling on adults are proven enough to show a moderate benefit. The same holds true for pregnant women, although the evidence is a bit less strong. But when it comes to adolescents, the evidence is almost nonexistent.In a large systematic review, there were two studies (out of 68 total) that addressed how counseling interventions might affect adolescent alcohol use. One was a randomized controlled trial of 119 urban adolescents screened in a medical clinic, published in 2015, that used peer networks and motivational interviewing. Over all, it failed to achieve statistical significance with respect to reducing alcohol use.The other was a 2017 randomized controlled trial in Switzerland schools (not clinics) of a web-and-text-based peer-network messaging system to reduce single-occasion binge drinking. It decreased the chance of that happening by 5.9 percent in the intervention group. But it had no effect on how much youths drank over all or the estimated peak blood alcohol concentration during binge drinking.That’s all we’ve got. And before 2015, there was nothing.“We are calling for additional research in all areas related to screening adolescents for alcohol use and providing counseling interventions to those who need them,” Dr. Curry said. “It is also important to explore whether such interventions could reduce other risky behaviors. In the meantime, we encourage primary care clinicians to use their clinical judgment when deciding whether to screen their adolescent patients for alcohol use.”There’s disagreement on the definition of unhealthy alcohol use for adults.For men, risky drinking is more than four drinks on any day or more than 14 drinks in any week, according to the national institute. And for women, it’s more than three drinks on any day or more than seven drinks in any week. (The institute defines a drink as 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine or 1.5 ounces of spirits.)The American Society of Addiction Medicine, on the other hand, defines “at-risk use” as “use that increases the risk for health consequences.”Young people tend to consume more alcoholic beverages when they’re drinking than adults do. Most of their drinking is binge drinking. Excessive drinking among adolescents — what we’re talking about screening for here — accounts for more than 4,300 deaths each year. The economic costs of excessive drinking in just this population were $24 billion in 2010. Of those who drive, about 8 percent report having driven after drinking alcohol; 20 percent report having been in a car with someone who had been drinking. About 20 percent of teenage drivers who have died in crashes had been drinking.Physicians who assure confidentiality and earn the trust of their patients can screen for alcohol use in adolescents pretty well. It’s not that we can’t uncover the problem. I’m often humbled by what my young patients will tell me in private. The issue is that we don’t have the knowledge for what to do with a “yes.” We don’t know that what we’re doing actually helps.AdvertisementSupported byThe Neediest Cases FundBy Corey KilgannonHallway photos in Teisha Waterman’s Brooklyn apartment show her identical twin sons, Pharaoh and Phallon, dressed alike. They are both smiling, cute as two matching buttons.Around the corner, in the living room, the real boys are less sedate. The cracked television screen is a result of their raucous play sessions. Ms. Waterman keeps the other furnishings in her home spare and durable, to withstand moments of unrestrained behavior.“If it can be broken, it’s not going to last here,” Ms. Waterman, 41, said with a laugh.Her sons, age 6, are lovely, playful kids, but because of their severe autism, they also need special attention and parenting support to meet their social and behavioral needs.The boys were born 26 weeks into her pregnancy, and each weighed less than 2 pounds. Doctors said early on that they had autism, and Ms. Waterman has struggled to get them the services they need, including occupational therapy and specialists to help them eat with utensils and communicate by using gestures.“Parenting is hard enough,” she said, “but having a child with special needs is 20 times harder.”Even by age 3, the boys did not respond to their names or other verbal communication, from their mother or between themselves. Only recently have they begun to acknowledge each other and play together.Interacting with other children remains problematic. At the playground, Ms. Waterman must often intervene, and offer apologies or explanations for awkward behavior from the boys.Pharaoh is prone to tantrums that can include hitting himself, screaming and ramming into his mother.“If a child asks his name, he might just start jumping up and down,” Ms. Waterman said. “Kids and parents don’t know how to respond. Some parents aren’t compassionate. They don’t understand.”The boys also are liable to bolt into the street and simply keep running, she said, so she must hold them tightly. She avoids playgrounds with more than one entrance and must tends the exit closely.“They have no sense of fear,” said Ms. Waterman, who raises the boys along with their father, her longtime companion.Even with both parents’ salaries, after covering the monthly rent of $1,100, plus utilities and other expenses, the parents are barely able to cover the many out-of-pocket expenses related to the boys’ care, including behavior analyses and therapy critical for children with autism spectrum disorder.The summer camp at the Shorefront YM-YWHA of Brighton-Manhattan Beach in Brooklyn has become vital to them. Its services include special programs and services for children with autism and developmental disabilities, including swimming, trampolines and sensory integration.The Shorefront Y is a beneficiary agency of UJA Federation of New York, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.When Ms. Waterman was unable to afford camp fees last summer, $1,260 from The Neediest Cases Fund covered part of the cost.“They can’t go to a mainstream summer camp — it’s too dangerous for them to be in groups with 12 kids to one counselor,” said Ms. Waterman, who has been frustrated by delays in New York State’s developmental disabilities services.After more than a year of delays in processing her sons’ applications, she said, she finally sought help from the Legal Aid Society’s health law unit, which has helped her make progress.Ms. Waterman grew up in Brooklyn and earned a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice. She worked in the Bronx district attorney’s office as a community associate, largely documenting police officers’ testimony.She found the job so upsetting that she eventually quit. She has worked at several Manhattan law firms and now works as a legal coordinator for Beam Living, a management company for the Stuyvesant Town residential complex in Manhattan.To keep the job, she must pay for after-school programs for her sons, she said.As strenuous as it can be, she said she is buoyed by the boys’ compassion and affection.AdvertisementSupported byThe fossil of an ancient animal teaches a sad lesson: Cancer has been around for a very, very long time. By Asher ElbeinCertainly the patient never knew where the hip pain came from, or why its left leg stopped working. The diagnosis arrived only 240 million years later, when a femur turned up in an ancient lake bed in Germany, one side marred by a malignant bone tumor.Cancer seldom appears in the fossil record, and its history among vertebrates is poorly understood. On Thursday, a team of researchers writing in JAMA Oncology have described the femur as the oldest known case of cancer in an amniote, the group that includes reptiles, birds and mammals. Modern cancers are often diagnosed through soft-tissue examinations or biopsies, but that is a difficult prospect for cancer-hunters working with cold, hard fossils. Instead, it takes luck. “When it comes to our understanding of cancer in the past, we’re really just at the beginning,” said Michaela Binder, a bioarchaeologist at the Austrian Archaeological Institute who’s researched cancer in ancient humans. “It’s not like people say, ‘Oh, I want to go study cancer in ancient turtles or in fossil mammoths,’ because we have so little evidence.”[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]The discovery of the femur was a stroke of luck. Originally collected by Rainer Schoch of the Stuttgart State Museum of Natural History, it belonged to a wide-bodied, long-tailed animal called Pappochelys, a shell-less relative of modern turtles.The femur and its jagged growth caught the attention of Yara Haridy, a former medical student and paleontologist at the Natural History Museum, Berlin. While many paleontologists look for the cleanest — or at least most representative — remains, Ms. Haridy said, the marks left by illness and injury also can shed light on the lives of ancient animals. The study of such fossils is called paleopathology, and it combines aspects of modern forensic and medical practices. “I basically go through an elimination process, which is kind of how diagnostics in humans work,” Ms. Haridy said. “You go from the most general possibility to more specific and really strange diagnoses.”Ms. Haridy and her colleagues brought the femur to Dr. Patrick Asbach, a radiologist at the Charité, a university hospital in Berlin. Examining micro-CT scans of the bone, the researchers began running through a checklist of possible causes.“If you looked externally, you could easily think this was an incorrectly healed bone,” Ms. Haridy said. “I thought initially this animal had a broken femoral head or some sort of really bad shin splints.”Healed injuries are the most common type of fossil pathology, yet the micro-CT scans showed that underneath the growth, the bone was unbroken.So Ms. Haridy considered other possibilities. A congenital abnormality would have been present on both sides of the femur, not just one. And while friction and excessive pressure can cause bone growth, the femur would have been protected by muscles.That left the possibility of disease. But most diseases eat away at bone instead of building it up, or lead to infections that warp and wear away the underlying surface. Benign tumors can sometimes grow on bones, but they tend to be formed from cartilage and look quite different: “They either make a bunch of cartilage or start to actually reabsorb bone,” Ms. Haridy said.The team identified the swelling as an osteosarcoma, a type of bone cancer also found in humans. According to the National Organization for Rare Disorders, an estimated 750 to 1,000 cases are diagnosed in the United States every year.The find is an important data point when it comes to learning more about cancer in the vertebrate family tree, Dr. Binder said. The lack of evidence for prehistoric cancer has sometimes led researchers to speculate that the disease is a modern phenomenon related to unhealthy living, pollutant-filled environments or people getting much older than they used to in the past.Other specialists have suggested the possible presence of a tumor-suppressor gene in vertebrates, the failure of which allows benign tumors to metastasize. In the absence of fossil evidence, however, there has been no proof. Adding to the uncertainty, some animal lineages seem less susceptible to cancer than others: Crocodiles and a few other reptiles, along with sharks and naked mole rats, are rarely troubled by the disease, while tumors in invertebrates don’t much resemble those of vertebrates.AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleImagine you could live your life without experiencing pain. Not quite as a superhero, you wouldn’t be super strong — you just wouldn’t feel any pain, physical or emotional. Ever.Would you choose that life?In “At 71, She’s Never Felt Pain or Anxiety. Now Scientists Know Why.,” Heather Murphy writes:She’d been told that childbirth was going to be painful. But as the hours wore on, nothing bothered her — even without an epidural.“I could feel that my body was changing, but it didn’t hurt me,” recalled the woman, Jo Cameron, who is now 71. She likened it to “a tickle.” Later, she would tell prospective mothers, “Don’t worry, it’s not as bad as people say it is.”It was only recently — more than four decades later — that she learned her friends were not exaggerating.Rather, there was something different about the way her body experienced pain: For the most part, it didn’t.Scientists believe they now understand why. In a paper published Thursday in The British Journal of Anaesthesia, researchers attributed Ms. Cameron’s virtually pain-free life to a mutation in a previously unidentified gene. The hope, they say, is that the finding could eventually contribute to the development of a novel pain treatment. They believe this mutation may also be connected to why Ms. Cameron has felt little anxiety or fear throughout her life and why her body heals quickly.The author discusses how Ms. Cameron was discovered by scientists:The sequence of events that led scientists to investigate Ms. Cameron’s genes began about five years ago. She was living a happy, ordinary life on the banks of Loch Ness in Scotland with her husband, she said. After a hand operation, a doctor seemed perplexed that she was not experiencing any pain and did not want painkillers.“I guarantee I won’t need anything,” Ms. Cameron recalled telling Dr. Devjit Srivastava, a consultant in anesthesia and pain medicine at a National Health Service hospital in northern Scotland and one of the authors of the paper.A few follow-up questions revealed that Ms. Cameron was unusual. At 65, she’d needed to have her hip replaced. Because it had not caused her pain, she had not noticed anything was amiss until it was severely degenerated. Cuts, burns, fractures — these did not hurt either. In fact, it often took the smell of burning flesh or her husband identifying blood for her to notice something wrong. She also reported that eating Scotch bonnet chili peppers left only a “pleasant glow.”The article continues:Scientists are also intrigued by Ms. Cameron’s extraordinarily low anxiety level. On an anxiety disorder questionnaire, she scored zero out of 21. She cannot recall ever having felt depressed or scared.“I am very happy,” she said.In retrospect, she sees how her genetic disposition may have aided her at work. After years as a primary-school teacher, she retrained to work with people with severe mental disabilities. Erratic, aggressive behavior never riled her, she said.But though having this mutation may sound like a dream, there are downsides. One is that she is quite forgetful; prone to losing her keys and her train of thought midsentence. The other is that she’s never felt the “adrenaline rush” that other people talk about, she said.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Would you want to live a life without ever feeling pain — physical and psychological? What would be the advantages and disadvantages of a life without pain?— How do you imagine your life would be different? In what ways might you be happier? What growth or development, stemming from anxiety or pain, might you have missed? Would you choose to live a pain-free life if it meant that you would never experience an adrenaline rush, as Ms. Cameron says she never has?— What role has physical pain played in your life? Do you think you have a high or low threshold for pain? Tell us about a memorable experience with physical pain. Were you able to take something positive from the experience?— In a related article, “The Value of Suffering,” Pico Iyer writes:Wise men in every tradition tell us that suffering brings clarity, illumination; for the Buddha, suffering is the first rule of life, and insofar as some of it arises from our own wrongheadedness — our cherishing of self — we have the cure for it within. Thus in certain cases, suffering may be an effect, as well as a cause, of taking ourselves too seriously. I once met a Zen-trained painter in Japan, in his 90s, who told me that suffering is a privilege, it moves us toward thinking about essential things and shakes us out of shortsighted complacency; when he was a boy, he said, it was believed you should pay for suffering, it proves such a hidden blessing.Do you agree? What life lessons can pain and suffering teach?— By some estimates, tens of millions of Americans suffer from chronic pain. The global pain management drug industry is valued at over $58 billion. Should scientists and pharmaceutical companies investigate Ms. Cameron’s case in hopes of developing more effective treatments for pain? If scientists were successful in developing a pain intervention or vaccine, would you seek out this product? Would you choose to shield your children from physical or emotional pain?Further Resources:How Pain Tolerance and Anxiety Seem to Be ConnectedA Soldier’s War on PainAdvertisementSupported byEl EspaceIt’s about planting seeds that will grow into understanding “whenever they’re ready.”By Concepción de LeónEl Espace is a column dedicated to news and culture relevant to Latinx communities. Expect politics, arts, analysis, personal essays and more. ¿Lo mejor? It’ll be in Spanish and English, so you can forward it to your tía, your primo Lalo or anyone else (read: everyone).Let me know if any of these sound familiar: Boys don’t cry. We don’t air family business. You have to be strong. Turn to God.These refrains (all of which I’ve heard at least once, some in the last month) are just some of the responses that people dealing with mental health challenges in Latino communities have come to know well. Going to therapy or struggling with mental illness can be viewed as a sign of weakness or that you’re “crazy.” Combine this with unequal access to mental health services and quality health insurance, and it’s no wonder that Latinos, who are just as likely to suffer from a mental illness as whites, are half as likely to seek treatment. When Adriana Alejandre, a therapist in the San Fernando Valley of Los Angeles, started her practice in 2017, she tried to find accessible information for her predominantly Latino patients — the kind of resources that would apply directly to their lives. “I was super frustrated, because I couldn’t find any resources for my clients that were relevant, that were modern, that weren’t so much clinical jargon,” she said. So last year, she started a podcast to get the word out and help Latino patients see therapists as “more relatable.” Immediately she received dozens of responses asking for more information and, crucially, Spanish-language content. Alejandre started recording the episodes in Spanish as well as English. Now, Latinx Therapy is a full-fledged platform with a directory of therapists and free screening tests for depression, eating disorders and other common mental illnesses. At speaking engagements, Alejandre said, people still tell her things like “I’m not crazy,” or “That stuff is not for us, for our family. Our problems, we solve it ourselves.” She explained that Latino communities tend to be collectivist, meaning that we value the group over the individual, sometimes to personal detriment. In other words, if family members are resistant to therapy or talking about mental health struggles, “breaking that is tough,” Alejandre said. “The downfall is that people suffer in silence.”The mental health activist Dior Vargas, 31, was one of those people. “I didn’t talk about it with my family at all,” she said about her early struggles with anxiety and depression. “Everything really came to a head when I attempted to end my life when I was 18. That was an eye-opening experience for my family.”“We were all thrust into this really traumatic experience,” she added. Her family “went from having no knowledge to having a lot of knowledge.” One of the problems was that Vargas struggled with viewing her own experiences as valid. She grew up hearing about how many family members grew up poor in Ecuador, including her grandfather, who emigrated to the United States with only a third grade education. “There’s so much trauma he went through that he didn’t deal with, that he didn’t talk about,” she said. Hearing about her grandfather’s struggles made her think: “Who am I to talk about feeling depressed? Ain’t nobody got time for that.”But intergenerational trauma is a crucial reason for Latinos to go to therapy, said Alejandre. Not doing so “allows the cycle to continue — whether it’s trauma, whether it’s depression, anxiety, domestic violence,” she said.She suggests explaining therapy to family members by comparing it to other common treatments: “When we have a cough, we take cough syrup, jarabe, to feel better. When our minds are sick, we go to therapy.” She also said it’s important to clarify that therapy is not only for moments of crisis. “Therapy is a space where you can learn to build skills, whether that’s communication, whether that’s understanding yourself, creating boundaries.” For me, setting boundaries meant not telling anyone in my family that I was going to therapy for more than a year. It helped to have it be my own thing, to not have to answer to anyone or be questioned about what went on there. Vargas’s approach was to share “very general things so that they felt like they were part of it, but not to the extent that they knew too much, because that time between me and my therapist was my time.” Alejandre said: “It is tough when family sees you as ungrateful for healthy behaviors like boundary setting. But the system will not change if someone does not initiate the change.”And early conversations about therapy are like planting seeds in our communities, she added. Those seeds will grow into an understanding “whenever they’re ready.”Here are more stories to read this week. 📲 Check out our new Crossing the Border newsletter for (sometimes harrowing) stories about life on the U.S.-Mexico border.📺 Netflix is going to adapt “Cien Años de Soledad” into a series. 🎙 The former owner of La Marina, Fernando Mateo, went on “The Breakfast Club” to talk about the saga there.AdvertisementSupported byBy Iliana MagraLONDON — Should Britain stumble out of the European Union without a deal and riots erupt in the streets, officials have a plan:Evacuate Queen Elizabeth II from London, local news outlets reported on Sunday.Reports of a scenario to save the queen and senior members of her family came to light as the deadline for Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union loomed. With fewer than 55 days until the formal divorce, now set for March 29, the country has been flooded with news of emergency preparations in the event no deal is reached.Reports of Britons stockpiling groceries, medicines and other supplies have proliferated. Nissan Motor, the automobile giant, confirmed on Sunday that it would manufacture the new version of its X-Trail S.U.V. in Japan instead of Sunderland, in northeast England, where Nissan has been making cars since 1986.Sony, the Japanese corporation, announced in January that it would move its European headquarters to Amsterdam from Surrey; Airbus and Bentley called the prospect of a no-deal Brexit a “killer” and a “disgrace.”But the report of an emergency exit plan for the 92-year-old monarch gave a different weight to the possibility of a no-deal Brexit.A spokeswoman for Buckingham Palace said on Sunday, “We’re not commenting on that at all.”But according to The Sunday Times, such plans were originally laid out long ago in anticipation of events that might threaten the royal family’s safety.“These emergency evacuation plans have been in existence since the Cold War, but have now been repurposed in the event of civil disorder following a no-deal Brexit,” the British newspaper quoted an unidentified Cabinet Office official as saying.In a reflection of the deeply polarized mood that has prevailed in Britain since the 2016 referendum on the country’s withdrawal from the European Union, the report of the evacuation plans for the queen was received with equal measures of worry and ridicule.The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.Many questioned the premise of preparing for riots immediately after the Brexit deadline, and whether Buckingham Palace, or the queen, would be the target of the public’s ire in the case of no deal.Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Conservative lawmaker who has been arguing for a no-deal Brexit, told The Mail on Sunday that the evacuation plan was a “wartime fantasy.”Robert Moss, a graduate student at the University of Birmingham, wrote on Twitter, “It’s possible — in a worse-case scenario — that civil unrest could break out if we find ourselves strapped for cash and low on imports.”Dave Queenan, another Twitter user, wrote on Sunday, “The only reason to be concerned about the whole ‘Queen evacuation’ saga is if they let Philip drive.”(Prince Philip, the 97-year-old Duke of Edinburgh, was recently involved in a car crash that injured two women, and he was seen days later driving without a seatbelt.)Kevin Featherstone, a professor of European politics at the London School of Economics, disputed fears of riots.“Britain is already bitterly divided over Brexit, and more than it has been on anything for generations,” Mr. Featherstone wrote in an email on Sunday. “But talk of riots in the streets is misconceived,” he said.He added that Brexit had to do with identity politics, not economics. And riots would not start over whether Britain would end up with a Canada- or Norway-type deal, he said. (Though Norway is not a member of the European Union, it is part of the single market; Canada also has trade ties with the bloc.)Nobody knows, really. But these are the likeliest scenarios.What to make of the report of a royal evacuation plan, then?The contingency plan is based on Operation Candid — an evacuation strategy designed after the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962 — to prepare for the possibility of a nuclear attack by the Soviet Union, according to The Sunday Times.The queen, the Duke of Edinburgh and the home secretary were supposed to escape by boarding the royal yacht Brittania under the so-called python system, which would see the royal family hiding in Scottish sea lochs.The plan was changed to feature the Hebridean Princess, a cruise ship, after Brittania was made idle in 1997.Mr. Featherstone said the risk of a no-deal Brexit remained less than 50-50, and that the report should be seen “as serving a current political purpose.”“It offers credibility to the fears of social unrest if Brexit is blocked by utilizing the ultimate national symbol — the royals — and puts pressure on Tory M.P.s to settle for a deal,” he said, referring to the governing Conservative Party.Prime Minister Theresa May wrote in The Telegraph on Sunday that she would return to Brussels to fight for Britain and deliver Brexit to the people.But the Brexit process has become so chaotic that even Queen Elizabeth, who has a constitutional obligation to remain neutral on political matters, made an appeal for harmony. In a speech on Jan. 25, the monarch made a plea for “respecting different points of view” and “coming together to seek out the common ground.”The evacuation plan has a no-deal Brexit as a prerequisite, so it could be abandoned if Mrs. May is able to negotiate a deal with Brussels that will win Parliament’s approval this month.If not, all bets are off.AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth DiasMeasles cases have spread across the country this year, with the state of New York now facing its worst outbreak in decades.Since last fall, more than 150 measles cases have been recorded in Rockland County, a New York suburb home to a large ultra-Orthodox Jewish community where there has been some resistance to vaccinations.The vast majority of states allow families to opt out of getting vaccinated if they object on religious grounds. Parents seem to take advantage of these rules: Researchers have found that broad philosophical and religious exemptions to vaccine requirements are associated with higher rates of unvaccinated children.But this year’s outbreaks are now raising public health questions about why states allow such exemptions. Here is how religious exemptions work:Religious exemptions allow parents to opt their children out of mandated vaccination policies if they object to the vaccine for religious reasons, and if they follow the state’s opt-out process. Almost every state, plus Washington, D.C., allows for a religious exemption beginning at least in kindergarten. Four states do not: California, West Virginia, Mississippi and Arizona.Each state has its own rules regarding vaccinations for children who attend public schools. In addition to the religious exemption, all 50 states, plus Washington, D.C., allow exceptions for medical reasons. Examples include a child who has a condition like cancer or an immune disorder where a vaccine could be harmful to the child’s health.And more than a dozen states offer philosophical exemptions, sometimes known as personal-belief exemptions, which don’t require that a parent’s desire to opt out be specifically about their religious beliefs. Instead, they can include exemptions for conscience or moral ideology.California, West Virginia and Mississippi, which do not allow religious exemptions, also do not allow philosophical objections.[Here’s what you need to know about the disease and the risk of getting it.]The measles outbreak in the New York suburb of Rockland County has largely been centered in an ultra-Orthodox Jewish community, where there has been some recent resistance to vaccinations. Vaccination rates tend to be low among the ultra-Orthodox, and the reasons vary, from fear of interference from outsiders to confusion over accurate religious and medical information.The current flare-up in New York and New Jersey, both of which allow religious exemptions, can be traced back to the measles outbreaks in Israel last year. Because ultra-Orthodox parents often send their children to their own religious schools, the outbreak was initially largely contained. But it has recently spread significantly.Some Orthodox Jewish schools have been allowing unvaccinated children to attend school, against the New York Health Department’s mandate, during the measles outbreak.Some people worry that vaccinating interrupts a divine plan for someone’s life, and they don’t want to interfere in God’s will.Others have concerns that some vaccines could violate religious dietary laws, unless they are designated kosher or halal. Last year an influential Islamic group in Indonesia issued a controversial fatwa, which was later overturned, against the measles-mumps-rubella, or MMR, vaccine, citing its use of porcine gelatine.And many of those who oppose abortion object to certain vaccines, like those designed to prevent chickenpox or hepatitis A. Those vaccines are made by growing viruses in fetal embryo fibroblast cells, or cell lines that are grown in laboratories but are derived from two elective abortions in the 1960s. A Catholic family in Kentucky, for example, has filed a lawsuit against the Northern Kentucky Health Department for banning unvaccinated students from school and athletics during a chickenpox outbreak at their son’s Catholic school.To an extent, yes. Vaccine exemptions for children enrolled in kindergarten have slowly grown over the past decade, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, prompting some states to consider changes. California got rid of its nonmedical exemptions in 2015. A few states that allow religious exemptions have made them more difficult to get, requiring things like a signed affidavit from areligious leader instead of simply filling out an online form.State lawmakers — often Republicans — around the country introduced more than 150 bills from 2011 through 2017 that would have made it easier to obtain exemptions from vaccine policies. But according to a study in the American Journal of Public Health published in January, 12 of the 13 bills signed into law actually limited the ability to exempt.Some professional organizations have also taken action. The American Academy of Pediatrics has made the elimination of nonmedical vaccination exemptions its top priority this year, even ranking it above family separations at the border.Yes. Rabbis and doctors organized a public health campaign to stress the importance of vaccines. The Orthodox Union and the Rabbinal Council of America have strongly urged parents to vaccinate their children.“It is well known that those facing even a potential life or death situation are instructed to set aside the Sabbath and other key tenets of halachic (Jewish law) observance until the emergency has passed,” they said in a statement in November.Elsewhere, local health and community leaders have stressed open communication between health officials and religious leaders to bridge cultural divides. In Colorado, Dr. Joshua Williams, an assistant professor of pediatrics at the University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine, has recommended that the groups talk at specific times, such as when the academic year begins or at the start of influenza season, and not just during a health crisis. He is also working with the state’s Council of Churches to hold sessions with parishioners to hear their concerns.“Religious vaccinations exemptions impact public health,” Dr. Williams said. “There is a need to dialogue with religious leaders around vaccine exemptions at local and national levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified an organization that has made the elimination of nonmedical vaccination exemptions a priority. It is the American Academy of Pediatrics, not the American Association of Pediatrics.AdvertisementSupported byBy Guy TrebayPARIS — When Chris Brown and Gunna fired up spliffs in the front row at the Yohji Yamamoto show on Thursday, it was a sure signal that fashion had crossed into new territory.The outlines of the landscape we’ve now entered are starkly unlike the one that came before in ways that are as much attitudinal as demographic. Fashion can’t afford anymore to be precious or exclusionary. Instagram unlatched the gate to a once largely closed realm and the world rushed in.“There’s that incense again,” Ben Cobb, editor in chief of Another Man magazine said as he settled into a front-row seat earlier that afternoon for Virgil Abloh’s sophomore show as artistic director of men’s wear for Louis Vuitton. He was referring to the skunky odor of vaped weed.“I’m so high right now,” Mr. Cobb added. He meant contact high, to be clear.The whole industry seems a bit buzzed right now, with designers as disparate as Mr. Abloh at Vuitton men’s and Pierpaolo Piccioli at Valentino seeming to quote from the same cheat sheet during backstage interviews, spouting a gospel of an inclusivity that has been too long in coming. And then there was Demna Gvasalia, frankly referencing in his new Vetements collection the sinister aspects of the dark web.64 PhotosView Slide Show ›The week’s tentpole event, Mr. Abloh’s show for Vuitton, was held in a graffiti-covered tent erected in the Tuileries gardens. Outside, mobs of teenagers chased after celebrity arrivals like Frank Ocean, Offset, Timothée Chalamet and Kid Cudi as French soldiers in camouflage gear patrolled the park with automatic weapons clutched to their chests. This is the new abnormal.The Vuitton show was presented on a set replicating the Alphabet City backdrop of Michael Jackson’s “Billie Jean” video and Mr. Jackson was the stated inspiration for the collection. “Michael Jackson was the most important person in innovating men’s wear ever,” Mr. Abloh said in an interview before the show at the headquarters of Vuitton’s parent group, LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton.This is true as far as it goes. Before personal self-invention devolved into dysmorphic disorder, Mr. Jackson showed himself to be an image innovator and yet always one whose presentation was based on a canny study of stagecraft and style. It is well-established that practically every element of the image we associate with Jackson — from the glittering military regalia he loved to his white socks and high-water trousers — was either derivative or outright borrowed, to put it politely.Despite having used a rhinestone-studded white glove for the Vuitton show’s invitation, Mr. Abloh’s objective, he said, was never to replicate the costumed Jackson but to use a deconstructed icon as a point of departure. And, in a way, what Mr. Abloh was doing to his idol’s image replicated something that appears to be happening to the fashion industry as a whole: breaking it up to sell the parts.Thus, there were military cuffs on an admiral’s trench coat and, on a bomber jacket, painted cartoon motifs adapted from “The Wiz,” Sidney Lumet’s 1978 film adaptation, with an all-black cast, of “The Wizard of Oz.” There were the expected exotic skins and luxurious fabrications because this, after all, is a house built on luggage and accessories.But there was also a doubling-down on sophisticatedly layered gray suiting, skirt-trousers perhaps too closely reminiscent of those produced by Jun Takahashi at Undercover and elegantly detailed blazers to counter the knock on Mr. Abloh that he is best sticking to graphics and hoodies.That there were flags of all nations rendered on bags and in leather pennants was Mr. Abloh’s nod to “We Are the World,” a single that Jackson and Lionel Richie wrote and recorded with an all-star cast to benefit African famine relief in 1985. They were also a reference to the multinational team Mr. Abloh, the American son of Ghanaian immigrants, has assembled at Vuitton; to an inexorable tilt in design away from Eurocentrism; and to beckoning untapped markets for luxury goods in what was labeled, in more benighted times, the Third World.AdvertisementSupported byBy Des ShoeThis is the final edition of The Week in Good News. After more than a year, we’re closing this feature as we move ahead with new projects. The surprising and inspiring journalism you have seen here can still be found across The New York Times, so we encourage you to take a deep dive into all it has to offer. You may be delighted at what you come across. Thank you for reading, and we wish you all the absolute best.Here are seven great things we wrote about this week:A single mutation in one errant gene causes this disease, which has devastating effects. But advances in gene therapy have scientists talking about the possibility of a cure.In a half-dozen clinical trials planned or underway, researchers are testing strategies for correcting the problem at the genetic level. Already a handful of the enrolled patients, who have endured an illness that causes excruciating bouts of pain, strokes and early death, no longer show signs of the disease. Read more »Baracat Paiva is the highest-volume fish cutter at the Boston wholesaler Wulf’s Fish. Videos of his knife skills have drawn hundreds of thousands of views and comments from admirers around the world, who are mesmerized by how his swift, graceful motions break down huge fish into fillets in seconds.Even more surprising? A little over a decade ago, Mr. Paiva had never even touched a fish knife. He was a professional soccer player in Brazil.“I was in love, but that love ended,” he said. “I found another passion.” Read more »The Thunderbird American Indian Dancers are the oldest all-volunteer troupe of their kind in New York. They also raise scholarship funds for Native American students. Their repertory has grown to encompass dances from across America and parts of Canada, and a recent program featured a Deer Dance from the Yaqui Tribes of southern Arizona and New Mexico, among many others.We talked to the troupe’s director, Louis Mofsie, about its history and mission. Be sure to take a look at the photos, as well. Read more »As long as you don’t cut off their heads, these smiling salamanders can grow back a nearly perfect replica of any body part, including up to half of their brain.To understand how they evolved this level of healing, researchers looked to the animal’s genome (which is 10 times the size of the human genome). They reported the most complete assembly of DNA yet for the striking creatures. Their work paves the way for advances in regenerative medicine. Read more »Ronald Braunstein, who has bipolar disorder, has experienced the benefits of music for his own mental health. He set out to bring them to others by founding orchestras in which all the performers have been affected by mental illness. His new venture was called the Me2/Orchestra, because when he told other musicians about his diagnosis, they’d often respond, “Me, too.”At each performance, a few musicians talk about their mental illnesses and take questions. “Instead of thinking people with mental illness are lazy or dangerous, they see what we’re capable of,” Mr. Braunstein said. “It has a positive effect on all of us.” Read more »There are now more comic books published annually in France and Belgium than ever before, according to the artistic director of the Angoulême International Comics Festival in France, which finished last Sunday. “The market has risen from 700 books per year in the 1990s to 5,000 this year,” he said in an interview. “I don’t know any cultural industry which has had that kind of increase.”The attendance at the festival by government officials underscored the way the “ninth art,” as comic books are sometimes referred to in France, is not a niche pursuit but a mainstream activity. Read more »These are the images of a baseball player, a change agent, a human being and a humanitarian. Many of the selections come from our archives, rounded out with images from other sources. Though he has been gone now nearly as long as he lived, Mr. Robinson’s legacy continues to resonate. Read more »AdvertisementSupported byDefeating Trump isn’t the same thing as defeating Trumpism.By Jamelle BouieOpinion ColumnistAs they begin their search for a nominee, most Democrats — more than half, according to a February poll from Monmouth University — prize electability above all else. They want a sure thing, someone who will beat President Trump.But beating Trump isn’t the same as beating Trumpism. Unseating the president won’t automatically undermine the white resentment and racial chauvinism that drive his movement. That will depend on the nature of the campaign against him and whether it challenges the assumptions of his ideology or affirms them in the name of electoral pragmatism.The possibility of defeating Trump without defeating Trumpism looms over Joe Biden’s possible run for the 2020 Democratic nomination. The former vice president’s not-yet-candidacy centers on his appeal to the white, blue-collar workers who rejected Hillary Clinton in favor of Donald Trump. He believes he could have won them in 2016, and he thinks he can win them now. This isn’t just about Biden’s working-class affect. As a senator from Delaware, Biden understood himself as a staunch defender of Middle American interests.But those interests were racialized, which is how a younger Biden could at once be a committed liberal and an ardent opponent of busing to desegregate his state’s public schools. As an article in The Washington Post last week demonstrated, Biden was at the forefront of opposition to busing in Delaware. The rhetoric he deployed in defense of his position channeled the visceral hostility of suburban (and urban) whites whose children were bused or whose schools took in bused children.“I do not buy the concept, popular in the ’60s, which said, ‘We have suppressed the black man for 300 years and the white man is now far ahead in the race for everything our society offers. In order to even the score, we must now give the black man a head start, or even hold the white man back, to even the race,’” Biden told a Delaware-based weekly newspaper in 1975. “I don’t buy that.”Biden made his argument using language that is still common to opponents of efforts to rectify racial inequality: “I don’t feel responsible for the sins of my father and grandfather. I feel responsible for what the situation is today, for the sins of my own generation. And I’ll be damned if I feel responsible to pay for what happened 300 years ago.”Busing did its job — integrating schools and improving outcomes for black students — but many whites viewed it as an encroachment on the privileges afforded them in a racially stratified society, what W.E.B. Du Bois called a “psychological wage” given as compensation for racial solidarity. These Americans thought they could keep black children out of their schools and neighborhoods. Busing meant they couldn’t, and they were angry.That’s the reason a segregationist like the former North Carolina senator Jesse Helms had kind words for Biden’s position, welcoming him “to the ranks of the enlightened.” Biden made a straightforward defense of white racial advantage aimed at those communities that viewed integration with suspicion and hostility. He articulated their anger. And while Biden tried to distance himself from outright demagogues like George Wallace, the former governor of Alabama and presidential candidate, his rhetoric was on the same wavelength.“The real problem with busing,” he said, was that “you take people who aren’t racist, people who are good citizens, who believe in equal education and opportunity, and you stunt their children’s intellectual growth by busing them to an inferior school … and you’re going to fill them with hatred.”Politically, Biden’s position made sense. Most white voters in Delaware opposed busing. And just three years earlier, in 1972, the Democratic presidential nominee, George McGovern, had prompted a revolt among working- and middle-class whites with his defense of the policy. McGovern tried to reframe the issue, asking white voters if “stopping the buses is really going to give them all the other things they want: jobs, homes, healthy families, better schools, safe communities — futures to look forward to with pride.” It didn’t work.“Support for it was a difficult case to make to white working people who felt that integration was taking place on their backs,” the historian Jefferson Cowie explains in “Stayin’ Alive: The 1970s and the Last Days of the Working Class.” “Immediate defense of white identity, home, and school readily trumped the abstract hope of a better world someday.”Biden’s sensitivity to the fears and anxieties of his white constituents helps explain his positions on drugs and crime in the 1980s and 1990s. He was an ardent drug warrior and “tough on crime” Democrat who hoped to outflank the Republican Party on those issues, winning ground from worried white voters. “One of my objectives, quite frankly, is to lock Willie Horton up in jail,” he said in 1990 when he was chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.That line, which refers to a notorious political ad from the 1988 presidential election, gets to the heart of Biden’s appeal in that era. He was working for voters who viewed cities and their denizens as carriers of crime and disorder who should be controlled if they couldn’t be isolated. His central work on the 1994 Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act, like President Bill Clinton’s later support for welfare reform, was part of a larger effort to position the Democratic Party as both a defender of white middle-class interests and as a disciplinarian — in clamping down on assumed black pathologies of criminality, promiscuity and dependency. Biden himself was trying to take this path in the 1988 election, before he derailed his campaign by plagiarizing a British Labor Party leader.No one is their past, however, and it’s possible Biden has morally and politically redeemed himself through his association with Barack Obama’s historic presidency. And Biden has been supportive of civil rights laws as well as a strong ally to groups like the N.A.A.C.P. At the same time, however, the former vice president has only tentatively addressed his intimate role in building the modern incarceration state, and he still defends his position on busing.The questions, then, are simple: Are Biden’s politics still racialized? Is his blue-collar and Middle American appeal still an implicit affirmation of white racial privilege?If it is, then a Biden candidacy may be one where he tries to capture the supposed center of American politics by presenting himself as the real embodiment of working-class white identity against Trump’s inauthentic embrace of the blue-collar worldview.Consider the message this would send. For decades Biden gave liberal cover to white backlash. He wasn’t an incidental opponent of busing; he was a leader who helped derail integration. He didn’t just vote for punitive legislation on crime and drugs; he wrote it. His political persona is still informed by that past, even if he were to repudiate those positions now. Biden could lead Democrats to victory over Trump, but his political style might affirm the assumptions behind Trumpism. The outward signs of our political dysfunction would be gone, but the disease would still remain.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byTo the Editor:I am sure that Michael Pollan’s eloquent essay “Smoking the Toad: How Do You Put a Drug Trip Into Words?” (Dec. 30) will contribute, if only indirectly, to the present re-emergence of legal research into the healing possibilities of psychedelic substances. I was a doctoral student at Harvard when the young Prof. Timothy Leary was engaged in his highly promising research with psychedelics. I knew Leary well and we stayed in touch for years, but I became increasingly disappointed and then angry as he escalated his work into a pseudo-religion (the “League of Spiritual Discovery”), with himself as the white-robed high priest. After that, and for many other reasons, psychedelic research was viewed with suspicion and eventually outlawed. But now the door has been opened a bit.My own pivotal experience with psychedelics took place when some Huichole Indians invited me and a couple of other outsiders to join them in the Mexican desert for a few days during their annual “hunt for the little deer,” the name they give to the peyote plant, which they use in their rituals. Fascinated, I quickly accepted. The Huichole welcomed us and taught us how to dig out the “little deer” without cutting its root. Then they asked us to gather around our own campfire while they sat around theirs, about a hundred yards away.That night, as we quietly, even reverently, ingested pieces of the little deer, I began to see why “psychedelic” (mind-expanding) and not some negative term is the proper word for peyote and related substances. During that memorable night I did not hallucinate. Instead, I saw all the ordinary things around me — our canvas tent, the crackling fire, the cactus plants, the sand dunes, the people in our group and the stars — with both a vivid and a comforting clarity. When the sun eventually rose, I knew why the ancestors of these Huichole saw it as the beginning of a new world.Thanks to Pollan and many others, we may now be on the threshold of a period in which ancient spiritual practices and modern medical research can combine to bring clarity and healing to many troubled souls.HARVEY COX CAMBRIDGE, MASS.The writer is Hollis professor of divinity, emeritus, at Harvard University.♦To the Editor:Michael Pollan has written an outstanding historical review and personal experiential narrative of psychedelic drugs. It effectively interweaves stories about individuals who played a role in the psychedelic movement or have personally experimented with and experienced psychedelics for mind-expanding or therapeutic purposes. But his essay and his book (“How to Change Your Mind”) are less accurate in their scientific reporting.Pollan’s sources of information heavily represent metaphysical constructs of psychological theories brought to bear on the psychedelic experience rather than rigorous neuroscientific analysis. While interesting and possibly emphasized for artistic purposes or as a literary device, they are sorely lacking in scientific validity.In addition, the idea of proposing the wholesale use of these drugs for any and all mental disorders and thereby construing mental illness as a unitary continuum of conditions is simplistic and misleading. Psychedelics have great heuristic value for understanding the structure and function of the mind and for potential therapeutic uses. However, the research to determine their value must be done carefully and rigorously while bearing the potential personal and political risks in mind. Conflating the potential therapeutic use of these drugs with spiritual enlightenment is reckless and risks taking research down the same rabbit hole that misdirected Timothy Leary decades ago.JEFFREY LIEBERMAN, M.D. NEW YORKThe writer is chairman of psychiatry at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and a past president of the American Psychiatric Association.♦To the Editor:With interest I read Michael Pollan’s account of the difficulty of translating a psychedelic trip into prose and recognized his comment about sounding like a Hallmark card. My final acid trip occurred in 1968 when, terrified, I looked in the mirror and saw that I’d completely disappeared, which led me to experience what was commonly known then as the “clear white light,” meaning I had more or less reached the limit of what LSD could do. A few hours later, still under the influence, I sat with some friends in the student union. The center of each of their foreheads was radiating some sort of ray that connected one to the other. Among other things, I said, “We are all one!” and someone pointed out that I sounded like a George Harrison lyric. Better than Hallmark, but still not utterly original.J.P. SMITH BEVERLY COVE, MASS.To the Editor:At a time when the array of entertainments competing for people’s attention is growing exponentially, the number of living witnesses to the Shoah is rapidly dwindling and anti-Semitism and even outright Holocaust denial are surging, Ari Folman and David Polonsky’s “Anne Frank’s Diary: The Graphic Adaptation,” reviewed by Ruth Franklin (Jan. 13), is a commendable way to maintain the book’s essential integrity while introducing it to a new audience.STEPHEN A. SILVER SAN FRANCISCOAdvertisementSupported byBy Karen CrouseAUGUSTA, Ga. — The first time that Sergio García’s older brother, Victor, caddied for him at the Masters, García handed him his putter on the ninth hole of the Wednesday par-3 contest and watched him drain a 25-foot birdie attempt. More than a decade later, Victor is again inside the ropes at Augusta National with his brother, but this time he will be shepherding García through the 72-hole tournament, which began Thursday.For almost 20 years, García’s caddie was Glen Murray, who provided the temperamental García with a ballast of stability and steadiness. Never mind yardages and club selection; no course has ever tested García more than his own passionate, perfectionist and occasionally tortured self.So when García, 39, decided last spring to part ways with Murray, citing a need for independence as he ended one of the more enduring caddie-player collaborations, his challenge was to find someone whose strength was reading him more than reading greens.The split with Murray occurred a month after García missed the cut in his Masters title defense. He said he had made the move because he felt as if he had come to rely too much on Murray’s counsel.“I had a good friend caddying for me for 17 years, but now I feel like this is what I need,” García said, adding: “I’m taking ownership of my decisions. It helps me kind of deal with my mistakes better.”After the split, García considered some intriguing candidates, including one he already spends a lot of time with: his wife, Angela.She was a fine amateur player who finished her collegiate career at Texas. She knows what it takes to perform in the caldron of competition, and her resting state is cheerful, both ideal qualities for a caddie.“I think we would make a great team, I have no doubt, because the few times we get to play golf we have a lot of fun,” Angela García said recently.Over the years, a few wives have caddied in PGA Tour events for their husbands, most notably Justine Reed and Nicki Stricker. The former world No. 1 Lee Westwood won his first European Tour title in four years last fall with his girlfriend, Helen Storey, on his bag. She is now his full-time caddie.“We talked about it briefly,” García said, “but, no, I don’t want her to go through that.”Shortly before last year’s Masters, the couple welcomed their first child, daughter Azalea. “Ultimately, we kind of decided I’m a mom first and foremost,” Angela García said.It was probably for the best, she added. After all, there are stressful moments in golf tournaments, no matter how good the Garcías are at calmly working through their differences. “If he did something silly and I tried to help him, I wouldn’t know how that would go,” she said.As García was mulling his options, his wife suggested Mardy Fish, the retired tennis player who advanced as high as No. 7 in the men’s singles world rankings and won six career ATP titles.García’s friendship with Fish, an Olympic silver medalist, dates back more than a decade. Fish is an avid fan of golf, while García is a tennis fan, and over the years they bonded over their love for each other’s sports.They’ve seen each other through adversity. Fish was there for García after he broke up with the tennis star Martina Hingis, and García was with Fish at the 2012 United States Open when he withdrew just minutes before a fourth-round match against Roger Federer because of a racing heart. Fish was later diagnosed with an anxiety disorder.A former professional athlete caddying for a major winner is not without precedent; the ex-N.H.L. forward Dan Quinn has had several caddying stints with his good friend Ernie Els.García’s wife phoned Fish to gauge his interest in caddying. Fish was intrigued by the idea. He was far enough removed from his professional playing days that he felt he could happily recede into the background and do the unglamorous work to help García shine. He had been working with the United States Tennis Association player development team in Los Angeles, where he learned very quickly, he said, “that it’s not about you anymore.” He was comfortable with that.Speaking recently by telephone, Fish added, “Angela and Sergio knew I understood what he was going through mentally, and I know where to put the bag and how to rake the bunker.”But the idea blew over before Fish had a chance to talk to García. Fish wasn’t keen on the prospect of spending long stretches on the road, away from his wife, Stacey, and their two young children, though he said he would love to carry García’s bag one year at the Genesis Open in Los Angeles.In January, Fish accepted the captaincy of the United States Davis Cup team. And García decided to enlist the services of his brother, who played college golf at Francis Marion University, a few hours’ drive from Augusta National.During the practice rounds, García’s brother gazed at the dogwoods and the towering pines, surveyed the azaleas in all their splendor and basked in the tranquillity of the tucked-away 13th tee.“He’s excited about caddying here,” García said Wednesday. “But it is not the holidays.”With his brother at his side, García enjoyed a scintillating stretch between the end of September and the end of January, posting seven consecutive top-10 finishes, including one second, one third and a victory in the Andalusia Valderrama Masters in their native Spain.Then came the Saudi International the first week of February, where García was disqualified for “serious misconduct” after damaging a few greens during his third round. García later apologized for his behavior, which he said had sprung from a personal situation that he was not handling well.On the day that García was disqualified, Fish spoke with García’s wife. “We talked for a while just about how to handle it,” Fish said. “I think she trusted what I had to say because I’ve lived it.”Fish said he had told García’s wife to let the other members of his team address his behavior. When García called, he said, her only question should be, “What time can I pick you up at the airport?”“Sergio’s had the best support of his life,” Fish added, “and that’s why he’s played so well.”AdvertisementSupported byTwo in three Americans share a bed with a partner. Here’s how to make it more comfortable.By Ganda SuthivarakomMs. Suthivarakom is the special projects editor at Wirecutter, a product recommendation site owned by The New York Times Company.No matter how big your bed is, sharing that space with someone else can make it feel cramped. Joy Osmanski lives in a one-room loft in downtown Los Angeles and shares a bed with her husband as well as their two toddlers. Depending on how everyone is sleeping, the California-king mattress can feel like it shapeshifts. “There are some nights when the bed feels enormous, where literally, I’m like, ‘Where are you?’” Ms. Osmanski said. “Other nights, I can’t even wedge myself in.”Ms. Osmanski’s situation may be unique, but sharing a bed with at least one other person is common. A 2012 National Sleep Foundation poll conducted with 1,004 Americans aged 25 to 55 years old found that 63 percent of respondents slept with a partner. A 2014 FiveThirtyEight survey of 1,057 American adults with a partner reported that less than 20 percent of respondents slept separately a few times a week or more.Wendy Troxel, a senior behavioral and social scientist at the RAND Corporation, noted that although studies show that people sleep better alone, those same participants say that they preferred to sleep with a partner. “What this suggests to me is that the psychological benefits that we get from feeling close and protected and connected to our partner, particularly at night, trumps even those objective consequences of sharing a bed,” Dr. Troxel said.The comforts of being close to a partner during sleep don’t have to come at the expense of getting a solid night’s rest. Here are some solutions for common crowded-bed complaints, from duvet tug-of-war matches to early-rising kid invasions.If you and your partner sleep comfortably at different temperatures, try separate twin comforters (Wirecutter, the product review site owned by The New York Times, recommends these ones), a practice found in Scandinavian countries and other parts of Europe. Not only can this end blanket-stealing, but it can also allow each partner to choose a comforter with a different warmth level, weight and duvet-cover materials (perhaps flannel for the perpetually cold and airy percale for the sweatier partner).Ms. Osmanski and her husband provide separate blankets for the kids. “Four different people, that’s four different sleeping temperatures,” she said. If you have a child who comes in and regularly steals the pillow, offer a small pillow that’s easier for small hands to move around.If you and your partner don’t have the same preference for the mattress’s firmness level, you’ll need to find a solution that works for both of you. In Wirecutter’s mattress buying guide, Santhosh Thomas, the medical director of Cleveland Clinic’s Center for Spine Health, suggests finding the firmness that works best for the partner with any musculoskeletal issues. We have tips on finding that perfect firmness here. If that isn’t a concern, consider a firm mattress and adding a mattress topper, like these ones our testers liked, to soften one side of the bed.And when you’re ready to buy a new mattress, choose a size that offers enough room for each person: A queen-size mattress gives each person 30 inches, while a king-size mattress provides a roomy 38 inches for two people. A foam or foam-hybrid mattress, like these models, can offer motion isolation, so you won’t ride the waves of your partner tossing and turning beside you. We found that foam mattresses limit motion transfer the best, but if you prefer spring mattresses, look for those with pocket coils, particularly between 12 and 15 gauge.Dr. Troxel said the ritual of going to bed with a partner can trigger social “zeitgebers,” or cues that influence circadian rhythms. “Partners can be very helpful to help enforce consistent sleep and wake routines,” she said. “It becomes a reminder to go to bed instead of staying up late playing video games or binging on Netflix.” Talking before bedtime, even if one person is a night owl and the other is an early bird, can help a couple feel in sync in their relationship.For parents who fend off children early in the morning, setting visual reminders to define an acceptable wake-up time can provide a similar circadian cue. A toddler alarm clock like the OK to Wake Alarm Clock & Night-Light helps to signify when it’s O.K. to get out of bed. For a more subtle but still effective solution, installing smart, color-changing light bulbs like our favorite, the Philips Hue, or a baby monitor like the Arlo Baby, which our reviewers liked for its night light feature, in a child’s bedroom can indicate to an eager child when it’s O.K. to get out of bed and venture into a parent’s room.If you or your partner snores or regularly has trouble falling asleep, don’t suffer through the problem. You can block out some snoring with occasional earplug use or a white noise machine, (and we have recommendations for both here) but if one of you keeps the other up with noise, it may be helpful to see a sleep specialist to check for sleep apnea, a common but underdiagnosed health issue, or other sleep disorders.Interruptions during sleep, whether in the form of medical issues or children climbing into bed, can make one partner feel the need to move to the couch or another room temporarily. If you and your partner choose to sleep apart long term, you won’t be alone. Although a lack of sleep may increase conflict, consider how the separation can affect your relationship. “Prioritize sleep as a couple. Think of it as an investment in your relationship, because you really are a better partner as well as more productive and healthier and happier when you sleep better,” Dr. Troxel said. “If you have challenges with sleeping together, talk about it in a healthy and calm and honest way instead of what I often see is out of desperation, one member of the couple abandons the bed leaving the other partner to feel literally abandoned.”Sign up for the Wirecutter Weekly Newsletter and get our latest recommendations every Sunday.AdvertisementSupported byBy Katharine Q. SeelyeWilliam C. Powers Jr., a long-serving president of the University of Texas who earlier produced a scathing report in 2002 on the wrongdoing that led to the collapse of the Enron Corporation, died on Sunday in Austin. He was 72.His family said the cause was complications of a fall and of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy, a rare, adult-onset muscle disorder.Mr. Powers was president of the University of Texas at Austin, the flagship campus of the state’s sprawling university system, from 2006 to 2015.But it was while he was a top legal scholar and dean of the University of Texas law school that he came to national prominence. In 2001 he joined Enron’s board and agreed to lead a committee to investigate the company’s financial dealings. Its findings led to one of the nation’s largest corporate scandals and the collapse of Enron, a Houston-based energy company that had started to implode in 2000.His blistering 217-page report found a culture of deception, self-dealing and self-enrichment at Enron. Controls, it said, had failed at almost every level, and the losers were the company’s shareholders, to the tune of more than $60 billion.Some critics had feared that Mr. Powers would be soft on Enron because the company had donated $3.5 million to the University of Texas, including $276,000 to the law school. But those concerns evaporated once the report came out and Mr. Powers testified before Congress, saying that what he had found was “absolutely appalling.”The Powers Report said that Enron executives had intentionally manipulated the company’s profits, inflating them by almost $1 billion.The report, which served as a road map for more than a dozen congressional and executive branch investigations, placed the blame squarely on Kenneth L. Lay, Enron’s longtime chairman and chief executive, and his protégé, Jeffrey K. Skilling, who was president and the next chief executive.Mr. Skilling, who was convicted on fraud and conspiracy charges in 2006, was released from federal custody last month after serving 12 years of a 24-year sentence; Mr. Lay faced the possibility of the rest of his life in prison but died of coronary artery disease at 64 before he was sentenced.After issuing his report, Mr. Powers returned to the law school, where he was an expert on product-liability law. He served as dean until 2005, when he was named president of the university.During his tenure as president, Mr. Powers spent much of his time clashing with Texas Gov. Rick Perry, a Republican, over the direction of the university and its funding. Still, he completed an eight-year fund-raising campaign that netted $3.1 billion and helped establish the university’s Dell Medical School.In addition, he championed affirmative-action programs, carrying the fight to the United States Supreme Court. In Fisher v. University of Texas, a landmark 2016 ruling, the court said that the university could consider race as one of several factors in undergraduate admissions.William Charles Powers Jr. was born on May 30, 1946, in Los Angeles. His father was an educator,his mother, Mildred Rose (Fluke) Powers, a homemaker.He received his bachelor’s degree in chemistry from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1967 and spent three years in the Navy, stationed in Bahrain.He then attended Harvard Law School, where he was managing editor of Harvard Law Review. He received his degree in 1973.Mr. Powers taught at the law schools of Southern Methodist University, the University of Michigan and the University of Washington before moving to the University of Texas at Austin to teach in 1977.He married Karen Devendorf in 1967; they divorced in 1981. In 1983, he married Kim Heilbrun, who survives him, as do his sons, Matt and Reid; his daughters, Kate, Allison and Annie Powers; six grandchildren; and his sister, Susan Powers. Another sister, Patricia Bemis, died in 2015.As president of the university Mr. Powers faced repeated challenges from Mr. Perry, who wanted the university to be run more like a business. The governor tried to remove professors whom he considered elitists, defund expensive research labs and measure the productivity of faculty members on spreadsheets so that they could be paid according to the revenue they brought in.Mr. Powers rejected this approach, defending research investments and the broader goals of a liberal arts education.“Bill put every ounce of himself into defending the soul of our university,” Gregory L. Fenves, Mr. Powers’ successor as president, said in a statement. “He bravely stood up for what was right.”His clash with the governor put Mr. Powers at the center of a national debate over the value and mission of research universities at a time when higher education was becoming more and more costly. College presidents across the country sided with Mr. Powers and elected him chairman of the Association of American Universities in 2013.Nevertheless, Mr. Powers agreed to resign under pressure. But with the support of much of the faculty, students and donors, he was able to delay his departure until June 2015.The previous year, his adversaries had backed an investigation into reports that Mr. Powers had pressed for dozens of students who were well-connected but who had poor grades to be admitted to the university over the objections of the admissions staff.The investigation found in early 2015 that he had admitted 73 such students over six years. He acknowledged doing so, but defended their admission, saying that the students’ families knew wealthy donors and lawmakers who controlled state funding for the university, and that admitting them would benefit the university in the long run.AdvertisementSupported byThe Trump administration must act fast to stop the escalating conflict in Libya, which will subvert ongoing efforts for a peaceful settlement and strengthen the Islamic State.By Frederic Wehrey and Jeffrey FeltmanMr. Wehrey is the author of “The Burning Shores: Inside the Battle for the New Libya.” Mr. Feltman is a former United Nations under secretary general for political affairs.On Thursday General Khalifa Hifter, the leader of eastern Libya militias, ordered his forces to advance on Tripoli, the capital, where the country’s internationally backed Government of National Accord is led by Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj.Ghassan Salame, the United Nations envoy to Libya, had recently urged opposing Libyan factions to come together at a U.N.-brokered national conference in mid-April to lay the groundwork for elections and pull Libya back from the brink. By ordering his forces toward Tripoli when U.N. Secretary General António Guterres was in the city to help organize the national conference, General Hifter has made his disdain for the peace efforts clear.The septuagenarian commander, who is backed by the United Arab Emirates, France, Egypt, Russia and Saudi Arabia, was aiming to scuttle the conference in a brazen bid for power. But he has encountered more resistance than he expected.Despite appeals from the United Nations for stronger American diplomatic engagement, especially to restrain meddling by General Hifter’s foreign backers, the Trump administration has long been uninterested in Libya. Recently, it seems to be warming to General Hifter, according to foreign diplomats we have spoken with. Such support from the Trump administration aligns well with the White House’s ties to General Hifter’s backers in Abu Dhabi and Riyadh, and President Trump’s preference for authoritarian leaders.A former officer in Muammar el-Qaddafi’s army, General Hifter broke with the dictator in the 1980s and received C.I.A. support before fleeing to Virginia, where he lived for two decades. He returned to Libya shortly before the NATO intervention in 2011 hoping to lead the revolution against Colonel Qaddafi. Sidelined by the rebels, he re-emerged in 2014, waging a battle against Islamists in the eastern city of Benghazi. After years of fighting, he gained control over eastern Libya. Then he set his sights on Tripoli.In recent days, clashes have broken out around the capital between General Hifter’s forces and militias loosely allied with Mr. Sarraj’s government. The country is entering a state of civil war.The United Arab Emirates and Egypt have provided military support to General Hifter’s campaign, according to U.N. investigators. He was further emboldened after meeting King Salman of Saudi Arabia in late March. These Arab states back the Libyan general because he has vowed to eliminate political Islamists they oppose from Libya. France has been another key supporter and has provided clandestine advisers to his forces. The continued interference of these powers has undermined the efforts of the United Nations to mediate a peaceful solution.Although the United States has officially backed the Tripoli Government of National Accord, continued American ambivalence on Libya or, worse, active support for General Hifter, could push Libya into greater conflict. This disorder could strengthen the Islamic State, which carried out a spate of attacks in Libya last year.It’s not hard to see why the White House could be drawn to General Hifter. Libya has the largest oil reserves in Africa, and the Trump administration reportedly sees Libya’s oil production as important in keeping global prices low. In the past year, General Hifter’s forces have secured oil facilities in Libya’s central and southern regions, boosting output. He has highlighted his role in fighting terrorists, garnering favor among parts of the American military and intelligence agencies. He allowed the C.I.A. to establish a base in the eastern city of Benghazi, which he controls.General Hifter also has Libyan supporters. His promise to establish order has been welcomed by Libyans exhausted by years of chaos and outraged at the failings of the weak Government of National Accord.Despite this allure, he does not serve American interests. Nor is he the national savior he purports to be. He claims to be eradicating militias and building a professional army, but his forces depend heavily on militias, some of whom have committed war crimes. His common labeling as an anti-Islamist is belied by his backing of Salafist armed groups. But most alarming is his apparent disdain for electoral politics: He has said that Libya is “not ripe for democracy.” The recent history of the Arab world shows that such absolutism is not a formula for stability.In General Hifter’s case, the danger of more conflict is made even worse by the fact that he is not as strong as he seems. For all his aspirations, the general is unlikely to fully unite or subdue the country’s factions and militias. His rise to power could provoke resistance by groups that fear reprisals and a return to dictatorship.To avoid an escalation, American diplomatic intervention is needed now. Many Libyans actually want more American involvement: In our conversations over the years, it is clear that the United States still retains credibility in Libya as a relatively honest broker, especially when compared with the Europeans and Arabs pursuing competing and narrow interests.In the summer of 2018, when General Hifter’s forces seized oil facilities in central Libya, American diplomats, working alongside the U.N. envoy, prevented these vital assets from falling out of the control of the internationally recognized government in Tripoli.In the current crisis, similar American resolve is needed again. The Trump administration should issue a public censure of General Hifter and press for sanctions — both its own and through the United Nations — against the general for subverting efforts at a peaceful settlement and violating Security Council resolutions. In the past, such punitive measures have been applied to other militia leaders who have attacked the capital. Beyond this, greater American diplomatic leadership is needed to shift European and Arab states from backing an authoritarian to supporting a more inclusive path.The United States cannot solve all of Libya’s manifold problems, but the next several weeks offer a crucial window, and decisive American diplomacy could make all the difference. Without it, Libya risks spiraling into wider violence.Frederic Wehrey is a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and the author of “The Burning Shores: Inside the Battle for the New Libya.” Jeffrey Feltman is a visiting fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former United Nations under secretary general for political affairs.AdvertisementSupported byShock jocks lose their power when forced to tell the truth, the whole truth.By Charlie WarzelMr. Warzel is an Opinion writer at large.Nothing like a three-hour deposition under oath to turn an excitable conspiracy theorist into a man subdued, deferential and humbled. That’s the Alex Jones who the world met for the first time on Friday, when attorneys for families of the victims of a school shooting posted his deposition online.The deposition was given earlier this month in conjunction with a number of lawsuits on behalf of parents of victims of the attack in 2012 at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. Mr. Jones, the longtime misinformation-peddler and founder of the radio and online show Infowars, is being sued for defamation for saying repeatedly during his broadcasts that parts of the Sandy Hook shooting were staged and that the tragedy was a “false flag” operation, designed to take away firearms from American citizens.For anyone familiar with his broadcasts and style, the deposition is a jarring piece of evidence. It is also perhaps the most revealing portrait of Mr. Jones — one that strips bare the bloviating host to expose a huckster. Amid his heavy sighing and wincing, the hours of out-of-court testimony show the real Alexander Jones: a man caught between the desire to defend his conspiracy empire and a legal system that threatens to bring it all crashing down.On camera and in public, the stocky Texan is famous for his meandering soliloquies and belligerent, occasionally violent verbal outbursts. The Alex Jones persona orbits around his volatility, keeping audiences entertained and colleagues on their toes. It’s never quite clear whether he’ll laugh and burst into song, pound the table in a fit of rage or begin dramatically weeping. The deposition video features Mr. Jones from the waist-up, sitting at a table — a camera angle similar to his online broadcasts. However, unlike an Infowars episode, the host is not in control. Instead, Mr. Jones is peppered with aggressive questions from an attorney. His confidential sources are exposed to be message board trolls and cranks. He’s made to read from a disturbing police report, chronicling the testimony of emergency medical workers who attended the shooting at Sandy Hook, and then immediately watch footage of his past broadcasts, in which he declares that elements of the violence were part of a “false flag” operation. In the video, Mr. Jones occasionally attempts to slip into his Infowars persona. But his digressions are dismissed by lawyers as “nonresponsive.” At one point, Mr. Jones, evidently weary from questioning, asks for clarification of the lawyers’ meaning of the word “staged.” His question is cut off. “I’m not here to answer your questions,” the lawyer says. “You’re going to tell me what staged means when you said it.”“This is such a rare public insight to his character and integrity,” Joshua Owens, a former Infowars employee who worked closely with Jones until 2017, told me on Friday evening after watching the deposition. “As someone who regularly saw his dynamic with others, no one speaks to him like this. [No one] asks these kinds of questions, pressures him to answer, or expects him to remain composed long enough for it to go anywhere productive.” Mr. Owens left Infowars after disagreements with Mr. Jones.For more than two decades, Mr. Jones has built a big business on specious claims and fear-mongering. When pressed on false claims by critics, his classic response tends to be that he’s merely asking questions others are too afraid to ask.Portions of the deposition are vintage Infowars: Mr. Jones blames “the media"; suggests that he is actually the person who is the victim of an unfair smear campaign; casts doubt on the veracity of the Infowars clips the lawyers have presented to him as evidence and suggests they’ve been heavily edited and that the audio was altered.“That’s Alex Jones’s M.O.,” Owens said of the deposition. “To flood any topic with confusion and doubt so no one can grab onto anything.”But under oath, Mr. Jones’s tactics fizzle. And the deposition highlights a troubling reality: The legal system may be the only way to defang a well-known conspiracy theorist at the height of his powers. Not only does the parade of lawsuits related to the Sandy Hook shooting cast him as a villain, but they threaten to expose and, perhaps drain, the funding sources that keep Infowars running without advertisers. There’s plenty at stake; documents reviewed by The New York Times last September suggest the bulk of Mr. Jones’s money comes from his business selling supplement products, allegedly netting more than $20 million in revenue per year.Near the end of the questioning, Mr. Jones suggested his claims about the Sandy Hook massacre were the result of a mental disorder. He said he “almost had like a form of psychosis back in the past where I basically thought everything was staged, even though I’m now learning a lot of times things aren’t staged.” The deposition footage is a rare occasion where Mr. Jones’s anger is caged. But I saw it once before, while covering his child custody trial in 2017, where he claimed that his Infowars persona was “performance art.” Throughout the trial, Mr. Jones, frustrated at being legally compelled to stay quiet, was restless and irritable. On the stand, he couldn’t maintain his composure. His behavior — pretending to lack specific knowledge, wagging his finger at opposing counsel and refusing to answer yes or no questions — was far more reminiscent of a spoiled child than a multimillionaire media tycoon.It’s unsurprising that the opposing legal team chose to release the deposition footage online, where it received tens of thousands of views in just 24 hours. In the sea of viral clips of Alex Jones, he always appears larger than life — and, crucially, in tenuous control of whatever narrative he’s spinning. That control is largely the source of his power over his audience, his employees and his critics. But this new set of viral clips busts the myth of Alex Jones, presenting him in a situation he can neither engineer nor spin. He’s a man who has lost control of the narrative. And it’s this performance — more than any ruling from any judge — that poses the greatest threat to the Infowars empire. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported bySOCIAL Q’SOur advice columnist answers a letter from a teenager wrestling with what is socially appropriate.By Philip GalanesI was diagnosed with Asperger’s syndrome when I was 8. Now I’m a teenager, and that isn’t a diagnosis anymore. I have autism spectrum disorder now. I’m considered “high functioning.” But when I’m happy or upset, I sometimes rock my body or flap my hands. My mom says I shouldn’t do this in public because it’s socially inappropriate and may be distracting to others. But I think it’s O.K. I’m not hurting anyone. And even though I can control the rocking and flapping now, I don’t think I should have to. What do you think?L.My hunch is that one of your mother’s concerns here may be that people will be cruel to you — or that you’ll get fewer opportunities in life — because of these mannerisms. My own mom expressed similar worries when I was growing up and discovering myself. Yours may not want other people thinking of you as different or treating you badly because of your gestures.But I’m no expert in autism. So, do me a favor and consult with one, either alone or with your mother. Talk with the expert about the best ways to manage your symptoms, and also to help you distinguish which ones should be managed for medical or psychological reasons, and which ones may be worth managing to help you fit in better — not that expressing yourself authentically isn’t important, too.The biggest threat here, as I see it, is that you end up feeling a kind of self-hatred for mannerisms that others find off-putting. That would be a terrible result. If we’ve learned anything from trying to be more inclusionary, it’s that a whole host of behaviors, sexualities, gender identities and more that were once thought of as aberrant are, simply, not. It’s the job of others to accept us. It’s not our job to worry about making it easier for them.Is there a statute of limitations on your husband of 30 years reprimanding your father-in-law for sticking his tongue in your mouth at your wedding (twice!)?UNDEFENDEDI am so sorry that happened to you! There is absolutely no time limit on discussing your pain and anger over sexual misconduct. In fact, exposing it to sunlight may do you a world of good. It isn’t clear from your email whether you told your husband immediately about the unwanted kissing or if it was a more recent disclosure. Still, I am doubly saddened by the signature you chose for your letter, Undefended.I can easily imagine the difficulty of a young woman confronting her father-in-law in the 1980s. But 30 years later, do you really want a man to defend you? It’s been striking to watch women boldly share their most vulnerable moments in light of #MeToo. So, reprimand your father-in-law yourself. And if your husband has been an obstacle in this, reprimand him too.A co-worker shops online for clothing compulsively. She often hides her shopping from her husband, who is also a co-worker. Recently, he confronted her about her spending. They argued, and she promised to limit her shopping. (She hasn’t.) Now, she’s asked me for a favor: Will I collect a package from the mailroom for her on a day she plans to be out of the office? She asked me to keep it at my desk so her husband won’t see it on hers. I didn’t know what to say, so I agreed. But now I have a nagging feeling that I’m complicit in something wrong. I don’t want to create hostile relationships with either of them. What should I do?ANONYMOUSI am going to assume that you learned much of what you report here (the wife’s compulsive shopping, the fight and resolution, her breaking her promise to him) the good old-fashioned way: through the grapevine. And I applaud your desire to steer clear of other people’s relationships.Go back to the wife and say: “I hope you’ll understand, but I don’t want to get between you and your husband. Please find someone else to collect your package.” And for the record, staying out of their relationship also includes not trading in gossip about it. I applaud that too.A year ago, our cousins shared their Netflix password with us. We’ve enjoyed riding their coattails. Last month, they told us they were canceling their subscription because they wanted their kids to play outside more. We thanked them for all the great shows. After their subscription would have ended, we went back to Netflix to sign up for our own account, but we discovered we could still access theirs. Apparently, they renewed. If they didn’t want us using their account, why didn’t they just tell us or change passwords? Should we ask them? Should we keep watching?ANONYMOUSAdvertisementSupported bypersonal HealthEncouraging men to seek help for Peyronie’s disease, a condition that can make sex difficult.By Jane E. BrodySometimes it takes the licensing and advertising of a treatment to get patients to seek help, even for a medical problem that is often painful and psychologically devastating.Such is the case with Peyronie’s disease, a scarring and bending or curving of the penis that can make sexual intercourse difficult or impossible for both straight and gay men. It most often afflicts middle-aged men, usually the result of an injury that may not have been noticed. Injury can occur during a sports activity, accident or vigorous sex when the erect penis is bent or pounded against bone.In repairing the damage, the body creates plaques of scar tissue under the skin of the penis, causing it to bend or curve abnormally or become indented when erect. Before the end of 2014, when the Food and Drug Administration approved an injectable drug called Xiaflex, there was no approved treatment for Peyronie’s. Xiaflex contains an enzyme, collagenase, that in four cycles of treatment is injected directly into the plaque to destroy it and reduce the curvature.One off-label remedy — multiple injections into the penile plaque of the blood pressure drug verapamil — is said to work in up to 40 percent of cases, though this has not been proved in a controlled trial.One happy beneficiary of verapamil, Don Cummings, a 56-year-old playwright living in Los Angeles, has written a memoir about his experience, “Bent But Not Broken,” in hopes of encouraging other men similarly afflicted to seek professional help, especially now that Xiaflex is available.“I know that men don’t talk about this, and I wanted other guys know they can get better,” Mr. Cummings said when I asked why he wrote such a revealing book. “I’m back to 95 percent of what was normal for me before Peyronie’s.”Researchers estimate that anywhere from 1 percent to 23 percent of men between the ages of 40 and 70 are affected, although the actual number may be higher given that embarrassment keeps many men from seeing medical help. More than three-fourths of those affected are depressed and stressed by the problem.“For the most part, men suffer in silence,” Dr. Jesse N. Mills, director of the Men’s Clinic at the University of California, Los Angeles, said in an interview. Given his urological specialty, Dr. Mills said he sees about 20 new patients a week with Peyronie’s, many of whom seek help after seeing ads for Xiaflex online.“I don’t think the incidence has changed in the last 500 years, but more men are realizing there may be an effective treatment, though we still lack a celebrity patient who will do for Peyronie’s what Bob Dole did for erectile dysfunction,” the urologist said.The penis consists of three tubes: the hollow urethra that carries urine and semen, and two soft, spongy tubes called the corpora cavernosa that fill with blood to stiffen the penis in an erection. All three are encased in a tough, fibrous sheath called the tunica albuginea that, when plaque forms, makes the sheath less flexible. Depending on the location of the plaque (in 70 percent of cases, it forms on the top side of the penis), it can cause the penis to bend up, down or to the side when it stiffens. Sometimes plaque forms around the penis, creating a narrow band like the neck of a bottle.Heredity and certain connective tissue disorders like Dupuytren’s contractures increase the risk of developing Peyronie’s. Elevated blood sugar, smoking and pelvic trauma also increase the risk. The disease can develop gradually or come on suddenly. It occurs in two phases: acute and chronic. The acute phase, which often causes painful erections, lasts for six to 18 months, during which plaque forms and deformity of the erect penis worsens. In the chronic phase, the pain ends, the plaque stops growing and the deformity stabilizes.Mr. Cummings’s doctor told him it was good that he came for treatment early, before the plaque became calcified and harder to treat. As he described it, the many injections of verapamil put holes in the plaque, “changing it from Cheddar to Swiss” and making the penis more flexible. He also spent hours a day stretching his penis with a traction device called Andropenis, an F.D.A.-approved penile extender.This and similar devices can help lengthen a penis shortened by Peyronie’s and foster straighter remodeling as the plaque is replaced with healthy collagen.“Xiaflex is not a miracle drug,” Dr. Mills said. “The trial that led to F.D.A. approval saw a 35 percent improvement in curvature, although we’re seeing about a 50 percent decrease. I tell patients ‘You’re never going to get back the penis you had, but you can get a functional penis,’ which is what most men want.” Only rarely does the problem correct itself without treatment.Severe cases that don’t respond adequately to injections may be treated surgically, an option usually reserved for men with disabling deformities that make sexual activity difficult. Surgery is not done until the plaque and curvature have stabilized. Options include shortening the side of the penis opposite the curve or extending the curved side by filling in with a graft, a more challenging approach.Some men with Peyronie’s disease who also have erectile dysfunction may be fitted with an inflatable pump or malleable silicone rods that straighten the penis and make it stiff enough for penetration.As with all sexual problems, it helps tremendously to have an understanding and patient partner. Mr. Cummings said he was fortunate to have been in a loving 16-year relationship with his boyfriend, Adam, when Peyronie’s surfaced. Though the sailing wasn’t always smooth, he and Adam married as he neared the end of treatment.Mr. Cummings said several women have told him that their husbands have the problem but won’t do anything about it. “Some doctors tell guys that there’s nothing that can be done about this. Men should know there is help out there — this is not something to be ashamed of,” he said.Dr. Mills emphasized that although there is still no sure cure for Peyronie’s disease, therapy often lessens the problem. “Xiaflex is the best treatment we have, and it got only a B rating from the American Urological Association,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byOne common thread of J.D. Vance’s and Tara Westover’s memoirs is distrust of institutions. Yet it was institutions — the military in one case, college in the other — that saved them.By Timothy EganContributing Opinion Writer The two great literary bookends of President Trump’s half-term of grift and chaos have come from survivors of the most broken white communities that helped put him in office. They also show us the best way out of the basement of American despair.How J.D. Vance, the author of “Hillbilly Elegy,” and Tara Westover, who wrote “Educated,” escaped physical and psychological horror is the dose of Charles Dickens that makes these two memoirs so memorable.Vance was raised by grandparents from Kentucky in a declining steel town in southwest Ohio. His mother was a drug addict who married several times. It was doubtful he would finish high school. Now he’s a venture capitalist who hobnobs with One Percenters in gilded hollows, and Ron Howard is making a movie of his life. He’s closer to a Beverly Hillbilly than one from Appalachia.Westover, a self-taught writer of incandescent insight, came from a clan of survivalist end-timers in rural Idaho, was badly beaten by her brother and was nearly killed when forced to work at the family junkyard. Her parents didn’t believe in birth certificates, school or safety regulations. She is now Dr. Westover, with a Ph.D. in history, after stops at Harvard and Cambridge. Of late, she glam-posed for Vogue from her home in Britain.These are two stories of triumph, and I have not a quibble with the magnificent telling of how their authors got from there to here. Hurrah for them. Both books, now circulating on college mandatory-read lists, have been sold in part as anthropological guides to a Trumpland that is terra incognita to most Americans.On the surface, this is true. Vance’s ragged Middletown, Ohio, went for Trump two to one. And Franklin County, Idaho, where Westover grew up, gave Hillary Clinton just 7 percent of its vote. Trump got 10 times as much. The people we meet in both places are poor, white, undereducated, violent, and evangelical in the extreme.But as much as these folks were all-in for the oft-bankrupt developer, Trump’s presidency has been a kick in the teeth for them. A con man in business turned out to be an even greater con man in office. The policies he has promoted — taking health care from the poor, trying to slash aid for people unable to afford college, gutting regulations that save lives in mills and scrapyards — have made life more hazardous in Trump-won ZIP codes.Beyond that, the surprise takeaway from these books is that we have the tools at hand to ensure that demography is not destiny in Forgotten America. One common thread of both memoirs is distrust of institutions. And yet it was institutions — the military, for Vance; college, for Westover — that saved them.That, and a handful of people who showed them enough love and an escape route from places where “family dysfunction” is too kind a euphemism.Their cultures are toxic and intransigent. As Vance writes, “poverty is in the family tradition,” as is “learned helplessness.” In other words, the hillbillies of his book have no one but themselves to blame for being hillbillies. Many of his neighbors are painted as lazy dependents of opioids and government handouts. There’s plenty of fighting, fornicating and fact-denying.He is scornful of government help programs. “I am a conservative,” he writes in a new afterword, “one who doubts that the 1960s approach to welfare has made it easier for our country’s poor children to achieve their dreams.”But it was a government hand up — the great meritocracy of the Marine Corps and federal aid to get through college — that sent Vance on his way. To his credit, he has recently helped raise more than $150 million in venture capital to encourage new businesses in overlooked communities.Tara Westover’s story is more harrowing. It’s not just the dark cave of ignorance in which she was raised. She says she was beaten senseless by her brother, in a family that enabled domestic abuse. Her father believed that doctors were “minions of Satan,” and public school was a plot of the Illuminati.College was her lifeline. Between battering from her brother and serious injuries at the old man’s junkyard, she taught herself enough to get into Brigham Young University. There she first heard about the Holocaust and bipolar disorder, among many revelations.College is certainly no panacea for all 16 million whites living in poverty, among Trump’s strongest backers. But it is for enough of them. And what Trump offered these people, in his proposed budget for last year, were proposals to cut education aid by $200 billion over the next decade. He would have made it harder for the poor to stay in college.When Westover’s father visited her at Harvard, he told her, “You have been taken over by Lucifer.”She saw it differently. College gave her a life of the mind, a new self. “You could call this selfhood many things,” she writes at the end of a fabulous story. “I call it an education.”I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).FeatureSince Freddie Gray’s death in 2015, violent crime has spiked to levels unseen for a quarter century. Inside the crackup of an American city.The scene of the murder of Jason Reuben Haynes, one of the 309 homicide victims in Baltimore last year.CreditCreditPeter van Agtmael/Magnum, for The New York TimesSupported byBy Alec MacGillisThis article is a collaboration between The Times and ProPublica, the independent nonprofit investigative-journalism organization. Sign up here to get ProPublica’s latest investigations.On April 27, 2015, Shantay Guy was driving her 13-year-old son home across Baltimore from a doctor’s appointment when something — a rock, a brick, she wasn’t sure what — hit her car. Her phone was turned off, so she had not realized that protests and violence had broken out in the city that afternoon, following the funeral of Freddie Gray, the 25-year-old man who drew national attention eight days earlier when he died after suffering injuries in police custody.As she saw what was happening — fires being set, young people and police officers converging on the nearby vortex of the disorder — she pushed her son, Brandon, down in his seat and sped home. “Mom, are we home yet?” Brandon asked when they pulled up at their house just inside the city line, where they lived with Guy’s husband, her grown daughter and her husband’s late-teenage son, brother and sister-in-law.“Yeah,” she told him.“You’re still holding my head down,” he said.Guy grew up in an impoverished, highly segregated part of West Baltimore near what was now the focal point of the street clashes, but she had long since climbed into a different stratum of the city’s society; she was working as an information-technology project manager for T. Rowe Price, the Baltimore-based mutual-fund giant. Seeing her old neighborhood erupt changed her life. After long discussions with her husband, who manages the office of a local trucking company, she quit her job and went to work for a community mediation organization. “It just felt like it was the work I was supposed to be doing,” she said.In Baltimore, you can tell a lot about the politics of the person you’re talking with by the word he or she uses to describe the events of April 27, 2015. Some people, and most media outlets, call them the “riots”; some the “unrest.” Guy was among those who always referred to them as the “uprising,” a word that connoted something justifiable and positive: the first step, however tumultuous, toward a freer and fairer city. Policing in Baltimore, Guy and many other residents believed, was broken, with officers serving as an occupying army in enemy territory — harassing African-American residents without cause, breeding distrust and hostility.In 2016, the United States Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division concurred, releasing a report accusing the city’s Police Department of racial discrimination and excessive force. The city agreed to a “consent decree” with the federal government, a set of policing reforms that would be enforced by a federal judge. When an independent monitoring team was selected to oversee the decree, Guy was hired as its community liaison. This was where she wanted to be: at the forefront of the effort to make her city a better place.[Read Alec MacGillis’s investigative article on Jared Kushner’s apartment complexes in the Baltimore area.]But in the years that followed, Baltimore, by most standards, became a worse place. In 2017, it recorded 342 murders — its highest per-capita rate ever, more than double Chicago’s, far higher than any other city of 500,000 or more residents and, astonishingly, a larger absolute number of killings than in New York, a city 14 times as populous. Other elected officials, from the governor to the mayor to the state’s attorney, struggled to respond to the rise in disorder, leaving residents with the unsettling feeling that there was no one in charge. With every passing year, it was getting harder to see what gains, exactly, were delivered by the uprising.One night last October, after Guy and her husband, Da’mon, had gone to bed, Da’mon’s brother banged on the bedroom door. “Yo, yo, get up!” he shouted.It was around 11:30 p.m. Da’mon’s 21-year-old son, Da’mon Jr., whom Shantay had helped raise, would ordinarily have been home by then, after his bus ride across town from his evening shift working as a supply coordinator at Johns Hopkins Hospital. But he was nowhere to be seen. Da’mon Sr. rushed to the door and asked what was going on.“Dame’s been shot,” his brother said.Four months later, I met Guy and Da’mon Jr. at a cafe near my office in the center of the city. Da’mon had recently been released after spending 47 days in the hospital, with 20 surgical procedures. His inferior vena cava, which carries blood from the lower body to the heart, no longer functioned; he had to rely on collateral veins instead. He was trying to go back to work, but swelling in his legs and shortness of breath were making it hard.Da’mon told me he had no idea who was behind the shooting, which he surmised was either an attempted robbery or a gang initiation. It was unnerving, he said, knowing the shooter was still out there somewhere. “I don’t like it when cars slow down to me or people are staring at me too long at stop signs,” he said. “Any one of y’all could be that person. You never know.”But Guy, somehow, had come through the experience even more committed to the cause she had signed on for. “Our city needs restoration,” she told me.It takes remarkable fortitude to remain an optimist about Baltimore today. I have lived in the city for 11 of the past 18 years, and for the last few I have struggled to describe its unraveling to friends and colleagues elsewhere. If you live in, say, New York or Boston, you are familiar with a certain story of urban America. Several decades ago, disorder and dysfunction were common across American cities. Then came the great urban rebirth: a wave of reinvestment coupled with a plunge in crime rates that has left many major cities to enjoy a sort of post-fear existence.Until 2015, Baltimore seemed to be enjoying its own, more modest version of this upswing. Though it is often lumped in with Rust Belt economic casualties like Cleveland, St. Louis and Detroit, Baltimore in fact fared better than these postindustrial peers. Because of the Johns Hopkins biomedical empire, the city’s busy port and its proximity to Washington, metro Baltimore enjoyed higher levels of wealth and income — including among its black population — than many former manufacturing hubs.The city still had its ills — its blight, suburban flight, segregation, drugs, racial inequality, concentrated poverty. But as recently as 2014, Baltimore’s population, which is 63 percent African-American, was increasing, up slightly to 623,000 after decades of decline. Office buildings downtown were being converted to apartments, and a new business-and-residential district was rising east of the Inner Harbor. The city was even attracting those ultimate imprimaturs of urban revival, a couple of food halls.The subsequent regression has been swift and demoralizing. Redevelopment continues in some parts of town, but nearly four years after Freddie Gray’s death, the surge in crime has once again become the context of daily life in the city, as it was in the early 1990s. I have grown accustomed to scanning the briefs column in The Baltimore Sun in the morning for news of the latest homicides; to taking note of the location of the latest killings as I drive around town for my baseball coaching and volunteering obligations. In 2017, the church I attend started naming the victims of the violence at Sunday services and hanging a purple ribbon for each on a long cord outside. By year’s end, the ribbons crowded for space, like shirts on a tenement clothesline.The violence and disorder have fed broader setbacks. Gov. Larry Hogan canceled a $2.9 billion rail transit line for West Baltimore, defending the disinvestment in the troubled neighborhood partly by noting that the state had spent $14 million responding to the riots. Target closed its store in West Baltimore, a blow to a part of town short of retail options. The civic compact has so frayed that one acquaintance admitted to me recently that he had stopped waiting at red lights when driving late at night. Why should he, he argued, when he saw young men on dirt bikes flying through intersections while police officers sat in cruisers doing nothing?Explaining all this to people outside Baltimore is difficult, not only because the experience is alien to those even in cities just up or down the Interstate from us (though a handful of cities elsewhere, like Chicago and St. Louis, have experienced their own waves of recent violence, albeit less dramatically than Baltimore). It’s also because the national political discourse lacks a vocabulary for the city’s ills. On right-wing talk radio, one of the few sectors of the media to take much interest in Baltimore’s crime surge, there are old tropes of urban mayhem — Trump’s “American carnage.” Typically lacking from these schadenfreude-laced discussions is any sense of the historical forces and societal abandonment that the city has for decades struggled to overcome.On the left, in contrast, Baltimore’s recent woes have been largely overlooked, partly because they present a challenge to those who start from the assumption that policing is inherently suspect. The national progressive story of Baltimore during this era of criminal-justice reform has been the story of the police excesses that led to Gray’s death and the uprising, not the surge of violence that has overtaken the city ever since. As a result, Baltimore has been left mostly on its own to contend with what has been happening, which has amounted to nothing less than a failure of order and governance the likes of which few American cities have seen in years.To understand how things in Baltimore have gotten so bad, you need to first understand how, not so long ago, they got better. Violence was epidemic in Baltimore in the late 1980s and early 1990s, as it was in many other cities, as crack intruded into a drug market long dominated by heroin. In 1993, the city crossed the 350-homicide mark. These were the years that inspired “The Wire.” They also gave rise to Martin O’Malley, a city councilman who was elected mayor on an anti-crime platform in 1999.O’Malley set about implementing what was then known as the New York model: zero tolerance for open-air drug markets, data-centric “CompStat” meetings to track crime and hold police commanders accountable and more resources for law enforcement paired with tougher discipline for officers who abused their power. By the time O’Malley, a Democrat, was elected governor of Maryland in 2006, crime rates, including murders, had fallen across the board, but at a cost. Arrests had jumped to 101,000 in 2005 from 81,000 in 1999 — leaving a city full of young men with criminal records and months and years away from jobs and families.This perturbed a police detective named Tony Barksdale. At the time a colonel in his mid-30s, Barksdale, a bald, bearish man with a lugubrious manner, grew up in a rough section of West Baltimore. “I saw my first guy get shot at a football tryout at Franklin Square,” near his home, he told me when I met him for lunch last spring in the city’s Canton neighborhood. His own block was relatively safe, however, because a police officer lived on it. Barksdale was drifting through Coppin State College, “blowing Pell grants,” when he saw a bunch of young black cops on the street one day. The sight inspired him to sign up himself.Early in 2007, he proposed a more targeted approach to policing to Sheila Dixon, the City Council president who finished O’Malley’s term as mayor after he was elected governor. Dixon, like Barksdale a product of the city’s black working class, agreed with Barksdale’s vision for reducing the murders without mass arrests. “She said, ‘How long will it take you?’ ” Barksdale recalls. “I said, ‘One day.’ ”Fred Bealefeld, Dixon’s new police commissioner, promoted Barksdale to deputy of operations — he was the youngest deputy commissioner in the city’s history — and Barksdale got to work. He developed plainclothes units with a more surgical approach to policing, which targeted the most violent corners and worked with homicide detectives to arrest the people whose names surfaced in connection with killings. He and Bealefeld met weekly with top-ranking staff members in the mayor’s office and sat down with top city officials every couple of weeks in CitiStat meetings — the municipal equivalent of CompStat — where Bealefeld was quizzed on overtime costs, recruiting and other markers of departmental health. Every couple of weeks, representatives of the police, the state’s attorney’s office and others met to review data on firearms prosecutions.Arrests fell by a third from 2006 to 2011 — and homicides plummeted as well, to 197 in 2011, the city’s first time under 200 in almost four decades. A 2018 study by Johns Hopkins found that the new approach to policing was the city’s most effective in recent years. “Baltimore had it going on,” Barksdale told me.But while Dixon had carried on O’Malley’s government-accountability practices, she proved less than ethical in her own affairs. A few years into Barksdale’s efforts, she was charged by the state prosecutor with theft and fraud. The prosecutor had scrutinized contracts and jobs her friends and relatives had received from the city — investigations that led to the discovery that she had personally used hundreds of dollars in gift cards solicited from developers and meant for poor children.Dixon was convicted and resigned, and was replaced by the City Council’s president, Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, an Oberlin- and University of Maryland School of Law-educated daughter of a powerful state legislator. Rawlings-Blake, a more reserved leader than Dixon, wanted Bealefeld to communicate with the public more often than he was inclined to but also less candidly; a white cop from a family full of them, Bealefeld was known for his blunt talk about “punks” and “knuckleheads.” In 2012, he retired, as did two of his closest City Hall allies, and Barksdale became interim commissioner.Barksdale interviewed for the permanent job, but Rawlings-Blake instead hired Anthony Batts, the former police chief in Oakland, Calif. Batts had resigned in Oakland amid tensions with the mayor and federal court monitors, but he had a doctorate and spoke fluently about the need for community relations. Batts’s profile suited a city that wanted to believe that its most violent days were behind it. Barksdale didn’t find out he had been passed over until he got a call from Justin Fenton, The Sun’s lead police reporter.When the Black Lives Matter movement transformed the debate about policing in 2014, Batts embraced an image as a reformer. He attended street festivals in full uniform. He reined in Barksdale’s plainclothes teams after a series in The Sun reported how much the city was spending to resolve lawsuits over rough arrests — more than $5 million since 2011. On Bealefeld and Barksdale’s watch, there had also been a rise in shootings by police officers, which roughly doubled between 2006 and 2007 before dropping to earlier levels — a fact Barksdale remains unapologetic about. “To hit the brakes on crime, there will be police-involved shootings,” he recalls telling Dixon and Bealefeld. “I know their mind-set. They’ll respect you if you’re willing to die just like them. And there are people who just don’t get that.”It was a controversial approach and one that Batts did not subscribe to. He replaced much of the command staff, and other people left on their own. Among them was Barksdale, who retired at age 42. “I like a commissioner who says, ‘Look, we have people in the community we have to arrest,’ ” Barksdale told me. “Not cops out here dancing in full uniform.”Political developments, meanwhile, had eroded foundations of the department’s recent successes, which depended heavily on coordination with City Hall and state and federal prosecutors, as well as with Maryland’s parole-and-probation office and other state agencies that might not have been as attentive to the city if the governor had not been a former Baltimore mayor. But in 2014, Maryland elected Larry Hogan, a Republican suburban real estate developer, as O’Malley’s successor for governor. Hogan put less pressure on state offices to work closely with the city’s police. And the new state’s attorney, after an upset victory in a low-turnout Democratic primary, was Marilyn Mosby, a 34-year-old former assistant prosecutor who had run with the apparent goal of shaking up the city’s law-enforcement bureaucracy. She jettisoned not only top deputies but also many prosecutors; more left of their own accord. Over time, senior members of her office became a less-frequent presence at CompStat and other meetings with law-enforcement partners. (Mosby’s office did not respond to requests for official comment.)In her campaign, Mosby called for diverting more nonviolent drug offenders into treatment. One halfway house used for this purpose was in West Baltimore, and drug dealers had zeroed in on its residents as a clientele, according to a member of Mosby’s staff. On March 17, 2015, Mosby’s office asked a police commander to target a nearby intersection for “enhanced” drug enforcement. A few weeks later, two officers on bike patrol a couple of blocks south of that intersection encountered a man named Freddie Gray.Among the deaths at police officers’ hands that animated the Black Lives Matter movement in its early stages, Gray’s was uniquely ambiguous. He was not shot, as were Laquan McDonald in Chicago, Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo., Tamir Rice in Cleveland and Walter Scott in North Charleston, S.C. All that is known for certain is this: When he encountered the police officers, Gray — who had engaged in low-level dealing over the years — ran. When the police gave chase and tackled him, they found a small knife in his pocket and placed him under arrest. Gray was put in the back of a police van shackled and unbuckled, in violation of a new department policy. When the van arrived at the Western District’s headquarters, Gray was unconscious with a nearly severed spinal cord. He died seven days later.Protesters took to the streets after Gray’s death. Batts, who had canceled a European vacation he was scheduled to take the previous week, appealed to Hogan’s new state police chief for reinforcements, but he received an offer of only about 120 officers, far fewer than he hoped for. The demonstrations proceeded mostly peacefully for a week until Saturday, April 25, when rowdy baseball fans headed to Camden Yards — including out-of-town Red Sox fans — taunted a group of protesters who had marched into downtown. In the mayhem that ensued, some teenagers and young men smashed in police cruisers’ windshields and bar windows and looted a 7-Eleven.The police held back, making only about a dozen arrests. It appeared as if Batts wanted to set himself apart from the heavy-handed tactics in Ferguson, where anti-riot police officers bristled with military hardware. That night, Batts, who declined to be interviewed on the record for this article, hailed his officers’ limited response to the disorderly crowd amassed downtown. “We’re taking our time to give them the opportunity to leave,” he told reporters.Bealefeld, Batts’s predecessor, told me: “There were people inside police leadership circles that were being celebrated for their restraint. People were thinking, ‘Aha, we want to be seen in that light.’ ” But this hands-off response drew resentment within the department, where many were already disgruntled with the commissioner from California. “It would have been over that night if we’d been able to do our jobs,” one veteran officer who attended a command briefing that weekend told me, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk to reporters. “They let it fester.”The approach was notably different two days later, the day of Gray’s funeral. The police were on edge over two separate rumors — a social-media call for a youth “purge,” or rampage, into downtown after school let out, and talk of gangs uniting to attack police officers. The F.B.I. quickly determined that the second threat was baseless, but Batts responded heavily to the first rumor, sending 300 officers to confront students at a big west-side transit hub after school and stand guard outside the adjacent shopping mall. Someone in authority — to this day, officials won’t say who — ordered a shutdown of transit service. Some of the stranded teenagers started throwing rocks and bricks at the police, who lacked proper protective gear and had received little riot-response training. Before long, a CVS pharmacy a mile away was on fire.In hindsight, it’s hard to avoid the conclusion that the riot was probably avoidable — if Batts had had more officers at his disposal, if his officers had been better trained, if there hadn’t been the seeming overreaction to Monday’s swirling rumors. But within three hours it was out of his control. Governor Hogan dispatched National Guard troops and established a command center in West Baltimore. That Friday, Mosby — whose policing request may very well have led to Gray’s arrest — held a televised news conference announcing a long list of serious charges against six officers, including “depraved heart murder,” or causing death through indifference. “I have heard your call for ‘no justice, no peace,’ ” she declared.Her announcement of charges — based on an investigation her own office conducted, not trusting the department’s — helped stanch further unrest, but it delivered a profound blow to morale among rank-and-file officers, who were already aggrieved over their leadership’s handling of the riot, in which 130 officers were injured. Officers bridled at the ringing, declamatory tone of her announcement. “It was the way she did it — the grandstanding,” the veteran officer told me.“Cops don’t necessarily stop in their tracks because another cop is charged in a crime,” Kevin Davis, one of Batts’s deputies at the time, told me. “Typically it’s a bad cop, a crook, a drug dealer or a drunk or someone who abuses his wife. But when these cops got charged criminally and the probable cause was not easily understood by the rank and file — that gave them a sense of dread.”The department’s officers responded swiftly, by doing nothing. In Baltimore it came to be known as “the pullback”: a monthslong retreat from policing, a protest that was at once undeclared and unmistakably deliberate — encouraged, some top officials in the department at the time believe, by the local police union. Many officers responded to calls for service but refused to undertake any “officer-initiated” action. Cruisers rolled by trouble spots without stopping or didn’t roll by at all. Compounding the situation, some of the officers hospitalized in the riot remained out on medical leave. Arrests plunged by more than half from the same month a year before. The head of the police union, Lt. Gene Ryan, called the pullback justifiable: “Officers may be second-guessing themselves,” he told The Sun. “Questioning, if I make this stop or this arrest, will I be prosecuted?”Ray Kelly, a West Baltimore community activist, had achieved measured success in building relationships with officers along the drug-riddled Pennsylvania Avenue corridor, where his organization had an office. Suddenly, those officers were gone. “We saw a pullback in this community for over a month where it was up to the community to police the community,” Kelly told me. “And quite frankly, we were outgunned.” In the vacuum, crews took new corners and people settled old scores. Not a single person was killed on the day of the rioting. But the following month, May, would conclude with 41 homicides — the most the city had experienced in a month since the 1970s, and more than the city of Boston would have for the entire year.Late that month, Batts admitted he was having trouble getting officers to do their job. “I talked to them again about character and what character means,” he told me and other reporters following a City Council hearing. He grew so mortified over the pullback that he started wearing suits instead of his uniform. By July’s end, 45 people had been killed during the month, and Rawlings-Blake had replaced Batts with Davis. The department was hemorrhaging officers now, at all ranks.[Read about the prosecution of six officers for the death of Freddie Gray.]Amid the upheavals of 2015, Shantay Guy found herself recalling, as a girl on North Avenue in the 1980s, diving under a car during a shooting, getting oil on her favorite shirt. Her work at T. Rowe Price suddenly seemed unacceptably rarefied. “I’m not doing enough,” she thought. “I’m doing a lot to make rich people richer.”She approached a friend, Erricka Bridgeford, who is director of training at the Baltimore Community Mediation Center, a nonprofit group that helps settle personal and neighborhood conflicts. Bridgeford encouraged Guy to take her training course. Guy started volunteering as a mediator and was soon offered the job of leading the center. She took it, along with a two-thirds salary cut.Across Baltimore, there was by then a mounting sense that whatever path there was to be found out of the city’s chaos, its residents were going to have to find it themselves — that the authorities were no longer up to the task. The lawlessness that followed the police pullback had persisted, and the city ended 2015 with 342 homicides, a 62 percent increase over the year before, within a dozen deaths of the worst year of the 1990s. Ninety-three percent of the victims were black. The rate at which detectives were able to close homicide cases fell from 50 percent in 2013 to 30 percent, as residents grew even warier of calling in tips or testifying.In July 2016, Mosby’s office dropped all remaining charges against officers in the Gray case, after trials resulted in three acquittals and one hung jury. It was that August that the Department of Justice released its 163-page report on the Police Department, a result of a yearlong investigation it opened at the request of Rawlings-Blake after Gray’s death. The report concluded that the police had engaged in “a pattern or practice of conduct that violates the Constitution or federal law.” The police’s pedestrian stops were disproportionately focused on African-Americans. They frequently patted down or frisked people “without identifying necessary grounds to believe that the person is armed and dangerous.” Baltimore officers used “overly aggressive tactics that unnecessarily escalate encounters, increase tensions and lead to unnecessary force,” the report stated.The report affirmed years’ worth of civilian complaints about the department. But it also essentially ignored Barksdale and Bealefeld’s largely successful efforts to move toward a more targeted policing approach. It suggested that mass arrests led inexorably to Gray’s death and the protests, when in fact by 2014, arrests had been halved from a decade earlier. Barksdale was especially livid about the report’s suggestion that the department, which is roughly 40 percent black, was prejudiced because it arrested mostly African-Americans in many parts of town. “Now a cop in a black community is wrong because he confronts black people?” he told me.He was also confounded by the report’s mockery of the department’s crackdowns on dice games, a frequent target of robberies and shootings. “Dude, you can’t have [expletive] open-air dice games,” he said. Armed robbers “want to stick that up, and if they have a shotgun and buckshot, you’ll have six or seven victims.” The failure of the report’s authors to grasp this, he said, betrayed a fundamental ignorance of local realities. “They have no understanding of what these things mean in Baltimore,” he said.By that point, Baltimore had elected yet another new mayor: Catherine Pugh, who won the Democratic primary that April — in Baltimore, the only election that matters — after Rawlings-Blake opted not to run for re-election. That December, Pugh came to her first meeting of CitiStat, the municipal accountability body started by O’Malley. The meetings were held on the sixth floor of City Hall, where top city officials sat around a curved table and put questions to whichever agency head had been called to the lectern that day to defend his or her agency’s performance.Very few people knew what to expect from Pugh. A longtime state legislator, she had won mostly by virtue of not being Sheila Dixon, who, having served her community-service sentence, ran again for her old job and narrowly lost. Pugh’s inscrutability extended to her bearing — she spoke in muffled tones, and her bangs often hung so low as to almost cover her eyes.At the CitiStat meeting, a major topic of discussion was a rise in carjackings. Earlier that month, an 80-year-old member of the City Council was attacked by two teenage boys while getting into her car in a parking garage, leaving her with a black eye. Davis, the commissioner, and his deputy said that the carjackings appeared to be the work of violent drug crews, who were deploying teenagers to steal cars as an initiation of sorts, and then often using the cars while committing homicides.Pugh grew agitated. The carjackings weren’t a law-enforcement problem, she said; they were a problem of footloose youth. Why wasn’t the meeting instead focusing on how to get teenagers into jobs or after-school programs? She declared the meeting a waste of her time and left. It was the last CitiStat meeting she would attend for at least six months.Pugh seemed overwhelmed by the continuing violence. It was not until August 2017 that she announced her plan to counter it. It would be built around daily meetings to focus city services in high-crime areas — which she dubbed the Violence Reduction Initiative — as well as the addition of a Boston-based program for at-risk young people called Roca, and the expansion of Safe Streets, which deploys ex-offenders as “violence interrupters.”At the core of Pugh’s plan was the notion that crime was driven by root causes. This was true, but it risked overlooking the most immediate dilemma: People inclined toward lawbreaking increasingly thought they could do so with impunity. Delivery of basic services to address root-cause problems was also undermined by the departure of key city officials, as word spread that Pugh was not easy to work for.By this point, it was plain that the surge in violence was not simply going to abate. Robberies and burglaries had also risen sharply. The city’s population was falling again, nearing a 100-year low with less than 615,000 in a census estimate released in March 2017. There were other, more ambient signs of disorder: the dirt bikes, squeegee boys at intersections. The city’s bike-sharing program was so plagued with vandalism that it was eventually shut down.That summer, Erricka Bridgeford, Shantay Guy’s friend at the mediation center, started Baltimore Ceasefire, an effort to get the city’s criminal element to put down their weapons for one weekend every three months. The group’s main slogan was straightforward: “Nobody Kill Anybody.” A second slogan was aimed at those inclined not toward violence but toward apathy: “Don’t Be Numb.” During the first cease-fire, that August, two men were killed. Bridgeford went to the scenes to mourn the victims.The Justice Department’s report, meanwhile, had led to the federal “consent decree” that the city negotiated with the department — a sweeping set of reforms of the Police Department that set out new rules governing stops and searches, internal discipline and much more. Gene Ryan, the leader of the police union, complained that his organization had been shut out of the process of drafting it. Tony Barksdale, who had been retired for three years and now spent his days trading stocks online, attacked it incessantly on Twitter, accusing city leaders of “handcuffing your own cops while turning the city over to criminals.”One afternoon not long after Guy began her job as the consent-decree monitoring team’s community liaison, she strapped on a bulletproof vest and rode along with a city police officer to see the realities he and his colleagues faced. The officer started his shift at 9 a.m. and, because of the department’s shortage of officers, would work until 2:30 the next morning.They cruised block after block of rowhouses in an especially drug-plagued area. The officer received a text message to disperse a cluster of young men — a frequent point of confrontation in the city. Young men often congregate in front of corner stores or liquor stores, sometimes just hanging out, other times selling drugs; the city would have a record 692 fatal opioid overdoses in 2017.“I’m supposed to clear this corner,” the officer told Guy, showing her the address on the screen.“Can you do that?” she asked.“No,” he said. As he understood it, the consent decree barred him from dispersing the young men. So he didn’t. But then his phone rang. “I guess when I ignore a call, then I get a phone call telling me I need to do my [expletive] job,” he said. Which was indeed what the call was.He and Guy drove to the address, where half a dozen young men in their late teens or early 20s were standing outside. The officer got out of the car and told them to move along. “The kids are angry,” Guy recalled; they had already been booted from a nearby corner that afternoon. “Like, ‘What the [expletive], we’re just standing here. We’re not doing anything, what’s going on?’ ”For Guy, the moment affirmed her belief in the consent decree. This sort of rote policing seemed pointless; nothing was accomplished by confronting the young men beyond fomenting ill will. “The question for me becomes: What’s the intention for clearing the corners?” she told me. “Are you clearing the corners in white neighborhoods? The corners would not be so crowded if we actually became responsive to community needs.” This was, in essence, Pugh’s strategy — if only it could be made to work.On Nov. 15, 2017, a veteran detective, Sean Suiter, drove with a partner to a blighted corner of West Baltimore to investigate a recent homicide. Suiter told his partner he had seen someone suspicious in a vacant lot and went to investigate. Shots rang out. His partner found Suiter bleeding from the head, his gun lying under his body. The 43-year-old father of five died the next day. His death was ruled a homicide, the 309th of the year.The police locked down six square blocks around the scene for six days. Davis, the commissioner, pleaded with the community to offer tips to identify the “heartless, ruthless, soulless killer.” The death felt like the city’s reaching its nadir, in more ways than one. As the public learned in the week that followed, Suiter was scheduled to testify the next day before a grand jury in a vast corruption case that federal prosecutors filed earlier in the year: a conspiracy that painted a picture of a Police Department that, amid the lawlessness of the city, had descended into widespread lawlessness itself.The accused were eight current and former members of an elite plainclothes unit called the Gun Trace Task Force, which, prosecutors said, had developed a penchant for robbing people, mostly but not exclusively drug dealers. Six of the officers pleaded guilty to racketeering and robbery.The trial of the remaining two, when it started in January 2018, offered daily revelations of brazen amorality. There was the video shot by the unit to document “discovering” $100,000 in a drug dealer’s safe from which they had removed nearly twice that amount to divvy up. There was the bail bondsman describing how, over the course of many months, he sold $1 million in drugs funneled to him by Sgt. Wayne Jenkins, the group’s ringleader, including bags of pills looted from pharmacies during the April 2015 riots.There was the wiretap of officers’ conspiring to lie to avoid detection for causing an accident during an improper high-speed chase, while doing nothing to help the victim lying in pain across the street. And there was the extremity of their fraudulent overtime, many tens of thousands of dollars for each — they were being paid while at the beach, while spending weeks doing exurban home renovations — all of it draining the treasury of a city where, as the trial was taking place, thousands of children were shivering in unheated classrooms.The trial was an indictment of the string of police chiefs who had, despite some headline-making arrests of corrupt officers, presided over the decay of measures O’Malley pushed for as mayor, like reducing internal-affairs trial backlogs and expanding integrity stings. The court proceedings also illuminated how the surge in violence after Gray’s death abetted the corruption. Some officers had been lining their pockets for years, but their activities became a true conspiracy amid the chaos of 2015-16, as commanders were so desperate to stem the violence that they gave them free rein.After the trial concluded, a dozen officers gathered at headquarters for a focus group, convened by the department to solicit their input on new policies stemming from the consent decree, on which they were to start receiving training in 2019. But the officers had no interest in talking about the decree, according to one participant. Instead, they vented about the impossibility of doing their job in a department in meltdown. They were bitter about being constantly “drafted” into mandatory overtime — departures and anemic recruiting had left the department with only 2,500 sworn officers, down 500 from five years earlier.A change in how the department scheduled shifts — made during Batts’s tenure at the urging of the police union despite the warnings of Barksdale and Bealefeld — had helped cause the city to pay $47 million in overtime in 2017, three times overbudget; some days, 40 percent of patrol shifts were being staffed with mandatory overtime, wearing down officers. The officers were also angry about the lack of resources and equipment. They fumed over the conflicting orders they received. “It’s: ‘Go out and stop crime, but don’t hurt anyone’s feelings,’ ” the veteran officer told me. “ ‘Be aggressive — but not too aggressive.’ ”In January 2018, Pugh replaced Kevin Davis with a new commissioner, Darryl De Sousa, but De Sousa resigned five months later after federal prosecutors charged him with failing to file tax returns for three recent years. The interim commissioner, Gary Tuggle, had barely stepped into the revolving door of leadership when he found himself facing fresh crises: an officer who quit after being caught on video pummeling a man on the sidewalk, another found passed out drunk in his patrol car, a top commander who quit after throwing a chair against a wall during an argument at Police Headquarters.And then there was the stunning conclusion of the independent review panel investigating the death of Detective Suiter: He had most likely committed suicide in the vacant lot and made it look like a cop-killing, the panel ruled in August. The investigators believed his suicide was possibly due to his ties to the corruption case.On a hot day in mid-August, several dozen city officials, police officers and commanders gathered at a bedraggled shopping plaza in the Highlandtown section of southeast Baltimore for one of the regular neighborhood walks that Mayor Pugh was conducting in her effort to exude a sense of authority. The mass of suits and uniforms did a slow circuit of a few blocks of rowhouses, trailing behind Pugh. “Watch your step,” someone called out as the group neared a dead rat.A neighborhood leader pointed out problem spots: a dark block where prostitutes congregated, a bus stop in front of a liquor store that allowed loiterers to claim they were waiting for the bus, piles of trash. It was far from the city’s roughest neighborhood, but Pugh was visibly taken aback by the disorder on display. She expressed particular displeasure over the trash bags that had been piled into containers in advance of pickup day. “You don’t see trash out front in Ashburton,” the middle-class black enclave where she lived, she said under her breath.Two weeks later, I met Pugh in her office in City Hall. The month was on its way to ending with 30 homicides, almost one per day. But when I started to ask her about the surge in violence since 2015, she cut me off. “If you follow the trends lately, since November of last year we’re trending downward,” she said.“They’ve trended down only so much,” I protested.Pugh looked down at an iPad, swiping through crime-data summaries. “May, we had almost a 30 percent reduction in violence. In October of last year, when I created the Violence Reduction Initiative, the following month, November, we dropped by almost 18 percent. We dropped again in December, in January, in February.”“Year to date right now,” I replied, “we’re barely below where we were last year, and last year was our worst year ever.”“No,” she said.“We just had more than one a day this past month,” I said.“This has been one of the worst months, but we’re about 20 percent down in homicides this year thus far,” she said. “That’s tremendous in comparison with last year.”“We’re very likely to end up at 300 again this year,” I said.“We’re very unlikely to get to 300 this year,” she said.There were 17 homicides in a single week in late September. The year would end with 309 homicides — the fourth straight year above 300. It was the early 1990s all over again — or even worse, considering that the city was now registering comparable numbers despite having 100,000 fewer people living in it.In mid-November, Pugh announced her choice for the next commissioner: Joel Fitzgerald, the police chief in Fort Worth, Tex. But reporters at The Sun discovered overstatements in his résumé; the City Council expressed doubts about confirming him; and he himself seemed ambivalent. Finally, after Christmas, with the city in its eighth month without a permanent commissioner, Pugh told reporters that she was considering bringing back Tony Barksdale, as head of the Mayor’s Office of Criminal Justice.It was an intriguing development, given how outspoken Barksdale had been in his criticisms of current department leadership and of the consent decree to which the city had committed itself. When I met with him a second time a couple of months earlier, in October, he told me he did not doubt the need for reform; he was mortified that some of the corrupt officers had come from the plainclothes teams he created. But he was worried that things had gone too far. “The criminals are so emboldened now,” he said.The decree’s demands had made it too difficult for officers to clear drug corners, he said. He was hearing from his former colleagues that loiterers were already reciting the limits it imposed on the officers to them on patrol, mockingly. (I had heard similar reports from a community activist who favored the decree.) Its broadened definition of “use of force” — physical actions that officers had to document in reports, which went on their records and would be scrutinized — made officers less likely to bother engaging physically.“What do you think happens when these guys see the cops not getting out of their car?” Barksdale said. “Years ago, if I pulled up and said ‘Let’s move,’ they moved. Now who has the control? They have control.” Citizens lose trust in the police not only if they abuse their authority but also if they do nothing about people wreaking havoc on their community. “Look at the number of bodies,” he said. “We’re losing horribly in Baltimore City.”It was two days later that Da’mon Guy Jr., Shantay Guy’s stepson, got off the bus in the northwestern part of the city. As he began his walk toward home, a purple Volvo S.U.V. pulled up with four or five people inside. He heard the locks click open. As he ran, he heard a shout, then a gunshot. It didn’t register that he was hit in the lower back, he said later, until he realized that he couldn’t get up. He called his own ambulance.Mayor Pugh visited him in the hospital several times. She was in the room when Da’mon, unable to speak because he was intubated, texted his stepmother: “Am I going to die tomorrow? Do my legs work?”A couple of days later, he went into cardiac arrest. Doctors and nurses rushed in. Da’mon Sr. was in the hallway, out of his mind with panic, shaking and screaming. “He was just O.K.! I was just with him! He was just O.K.!” People were trying to restrain him. “Just let me see him!” he screamed.As the blip of Da’mon’s heartbeat returned on the monitor, Guy tried to calm her husband: “Can you hear it?” she said. “Just focus on the sound.”As Guy recounted the story in the cafe, I asked what she thought had driven the surge in violence. It was the perception, she said, that “police officers are not doing their jobs, and folks out there doing dirt see that they’re not doing their jobs and whatever they’re doing they can get away with.”This was not so different from what I heard from Barksdale (who would learn in early March that he wasn’t getting the City Hall job), but she insisted the answer was not a return to tougher tactics. “Tony and I aren’t going to agree,” she told me. “I’m always going to be looking at what’s throwing the children in the street: What’s happening upstream to get them there?” That applied even to the person who shot her stepson, she said. “What happened to him or her that made this O.K. for them?” she said. “I believe they’re victims, too. I really do.”Guy had recently left her role with the consent-decree team to take a job at a civic-leadership organization, but she was still involved in police reform. She would be leading meetings around town in which yet another new commissioner would be introduced to residents: Michael Harrison, late of New Orleans. Pugh had settled on him after the Fort Worth chief pulled out in January. Harrison seemed a good fit, someone who knew what it was like to police a violent city. And he came from a department that had been in deep turmoil, after Hurricane Katrina, and was now operating under its own consent decree.On nine occasions, Guy stood alongside Harrison as he listened to the crowd turning out to see him. A vast majority of questions were from residents, most of them African-American, asking for the department to provide their neighborhoods with more officers and a more energetic response to crowded corners and other signs of disorder.One of the meetings was in a school auditorium in Edmondson Village, a section of southwest Baltimore that has been especially hard hit by the surge in violence. Last summer, just a few blocks from the school, a 7-year-old girl was fatally shot in a car off Edmondson Avenue, the thoroughfare that the transit rail line that Hogan canceled would have run along. A police officer had been sitting in his cruiser a block away with the windows up; residents rushed to alert him.The meeting was standing room only. “We just want to feel safe, period,” Monique Washington, president of the Edmondson Village Community Association, told Harrison. “Our people are in fear, and we’re tired.”An hour into the forum, a neighborhood resident named Renee McCray stepped up to the microphone. She described how bewildering it had been to accompany a friend downtown, near the tourist-friendly Inner Harbor, one night a few months earlier. “The lighting was so bright. People had scooters. They had bikes. They had babies in strollers. And I said: ‘What city is this? This is not Baltimore City.’ Because if you go up to Martin Luther King Boulevard” — the demarcation between downtown and the west side — “we’re all bolted in our homes, we’re locked down.” She paused for a moment to deliver her point. “All any of us want is equal protection,” she said.It was a striking echo of the language in the Department of Justice report and the activists’ condemnations of the police following Gray’s death. Back then, the claims were of overly aggressive policing; now residents were pleading for police officers to get out of their cars, to earn their pay — to protect them.You could look at this evolution as demonstrating an irreconcilable conflict, a tension between Shantay Guy and Tony Barksdale never to be resolved. But the residents streaming into these sessions with Harrison weren’t suggesting that. They were not describing a trade-off between justice and order. They saw them as two parts of a whole and were daring to ask for both.Alec MacGillis is a reporter for ProPublica and the author of “The Cynic,” a 2014 biography of Senator Mitch McConnell. MacGillis’s 2017 article on Jared Kushner’s apartment complexes in the Baltimore area was a finalist for a National Magazine Award.AdvertisementSupported byUnlike the parents indicted by federal prosecutors last week in the college admissions scandal, these students have followed the rules.By Campbell Robertson, Alan Blinder, Amy Harmon and Jennifer MedinaThe college application process, for those staying within the rules, is one long and maddening lesson in the limits of control. Study hard, make the sports team, detail the family financial situation and then … sit and wait.That this nerve-racking powerlessness could simply be bought off is among the most galling parts of the college admission scandal that exploded across the country last week. Instead of students doing what they can and hoping for the best, the elaborate scheme outlined by federal prosecutors involved nailing down spots at elite schools by cheating on standardized tests and funneling bribes to athletic coaches.For the honest applicants, the path to college is paved with years of effort and culminates now, in these early spring weeks, with answers landing at any moment in email inboxes. Some students worry that their achievements are too few. Others fear they might be viewed as not authentic enough. Some are led by their parents, but many navigate the process with little or no guidance at all.[How the admissions scandal looked to students at a predominantly black school in Kansas City.]There are athletes who have spent years in sports like crew, trying to keep their grades up while also drawing the legitimate attention of recruiters, unlike the families caught in the scandal last week. Most students are not applying to superelite schools. Some have already entered the world of higher education by going to community college — and are now hoping to transfer to a four-year school not too far from home. Even within the rules, aspirants eye the angles, looking for activities or experiences that would increase their chances. But there is only so much an honest person can do.When she was 19, Surbhi Sharma cut short her college education to move to America. Her family left their home in northern India, following relatives to the United States and settling outside of Gary, Ind.She went to work immediately at Dunkin’ Donuts. But she knew even then that she wanted to go back to college.Now 26, Ms. Sharma is waiting to hear news of her applications to several four-year universities around Pennsylvania. For her, the college application was not a harried process dominating the afternoons and weekends of her junior and senior high school years, but something that unfolded over nearly a decade.“It took a long time,” Ms. Sharma said. “It’s a very long journey and now I’m just waiting for that moment.”When she started out, Ms. Sharma had no sense of how the American college admissions process worked and no one around to tell her. Not long after the family had moved again to the Pittsburgh area — her parents finding work at a gas station and Ms. Sharma as a teller at a bank — she went to an open house at the Community College of Allegheny County. It left her wondering how much time she would really have for her education. She left halfway through the presentation to get back to her job, and missed learning about financial aid.“It’s a very long journey and now I’m just waiting for that moment.”Surbhi SharmaEventually, though, she applied for and won a scholarship at the school and in 2016, four years after that open house, enrolled as a full-time student at the community college. The past two years have been jam-packed: commuting from home, studying mathematics and radiation technology, winning honors and other scholarships, serving in student leadership positions — particularly those involving outreach to immigrant students — and most recently putting in clinical hours at a hospital.By the time she had begun the process of applying to four-year colleges, she was something of a veteran.“I was ready for it,” she said.Now, some eight years after first starting at a university, Ms. Sharma is nervously seeing where she will spend the next four. She wants to study radiation therapy technology at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia, and perhaps, eventually, start working toward a doctorate.“It’s a stressful feeling but patience and time, that’s what I can say,” she said. “I am just waiting.”[Your questions about the college admission scandal answered.]The email arrived at the end of Jackson Lamb’s junior year at the McCallie School, one of the South’s most prestigious boarding schools.What were his preferences, his guidance counselors wanted to know, for where he would go for college?Mr. Lamb, now a 19-year-old attending high school on a scholarship, had never given it much thought. “I think they wanted me to take it more seriously because I was like, ‘Oh, whatever happens will happen,’” he said of his parents.So began Mr. Lamb’s college application odyssey.Searching for schools on Google and looking at suggestions from his school, Mr. Lamb gradually whittled down his list. An important criterion: a place where he could easily go rock climbing.“There are definitely students I know who choose harder classes and take bigger workloads.”Jackson LambMr. Lamb, who has attention deficit disorder, had been granted extended time to complete his standardized tests.Unlike the children whose parents were indicted last week, Mr. Lamb’s reasons were legitimate. In the fraud case, parents falsely claimed their children had learning disabilities, so they could take their tests under conditions that would make it easier to cheat.Mr. Lamb is surrounded by wealthier students whose parents were more involved in their applications. “There are definitely students I know who choose harder classes and take bigger workloads,” he said.With hindsight, he said, maybe he should have started thinking about colleges when he was in the ninth grade. Maybe, he said, he would have been “generally more aware that I’m eventually going to have to deal with all of this stress.” In the end, though, he suggested that his most aggressive strategy to impress admissions officers was writing an essay about his experience earning his Eagle Scout rank. His mother, back home in Central City, Ky., checked his essay for spelling.But he has grown weary of the endless paperwork that comes with college admissions.“I’m glad it’s going to be over soon,” Mr. Lamb said.[Read about how Rick Singer built a national brand appealing to parents’ worries about their children’s college prospects.]The college application season began in earnest last spring for Karen Ge when her parents proposed hiring a college consultant.As Chinese immigrants who had attended graduate school but not college in the United States, they worried that they were not prepared for the infamous intricacies of the process. There were plenty of consultant recommendations to be had from other families at the public high school Karen attended in the Chicago suburbs, or from the College Confidential website that they read regularly. Karen’s mother, Kejia Ho, who had a terminal cancer diagnosis, wanted to give her daughter every chance.But Karen, who has an SAT score of 1590, a GPA of 4.8, and in 2017 scored among the top students nationwide in a major high school math competition, said no. With some combination of calculation and authenticity, she felt she had already been shaping herself to be a competitive candidate for admission to top colleges for years.“I had to factor in all the stereotypes about Asians. Like they’re really good at math and have no social skills.”Karen GeFirst, at her mother’s insistence, she had practiced for the test to apply for a magnet program that began in the fourth grade.When she got in — the following year — there was MathCounts, a middle-school math competition, to prepare for.Then the goal was qualifying for the state championship, and then the national one.The pleasure of achievement was mixed, always, with the pressure of the looming uncertainty of college admissions.When Ms. Ge realized she had come to genuinely love math, there were new considerations: One high school summer, she chose to attend an elite math program that was thought to be more prestigious for a college application, rather than one that was better tailored to her interest.And her application essay itself was a balancing act. As an Asian-American who loved math, she had been well-warned by peers and mentors to avoid appearing too much like one. The Harvard admissions lawsuit, which claims that the college discriminates against Asian-American applicants by assigning them low scores on “personality” criteria, did not help her confidence, especially since she was applying early to Harvard.Despite all her math accomplishments, she focused her essay on the experience of overcoming her social shyness. The goal was to come across as “warm” rather than “flat,” — the term often assigned to Asian applicants by admissions officers.“I had to factor in all the stereotypes about Asians,” said Ms. Ge, who is now 17. “Like they’re really good at math and have no social skills.”Rejecting the consultant was something that could let her feel, she said, a little less like she was trying to manipulate the system — or that she was a cog within it. Even in December, when she learned she had not been admitted early to Harvard, she had no regrets.“I did all I could and I didn’t cheat, even if I didn’t get the results I wanted,” she said. It was a stressful year, full of dark moments, Ms. Ge said. Her mother died in the fall.It helped that she was accepted last week at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. “It was like a huge cloud lifted, because I can actually go to a college now,” she said. But her wait continues.She will find out about Harvard on March 28. Stanford, another top choice, will let her and other applicants know a few days after that.When he received an email from a crew coach at an Ivy League school soon after he began his junior year of high school, Angus Gosman was still uncertain whether he would attend college.“It was quite surprising for me,” said Mr. Gosman, 18. “I didn’t realize that recruiting was starting then. These are amazing academic institutions, not something that I ever saw myself in.”By the beginning of his senior year, Mr. Gosman was speaking with rowing coaches at nearly a dozen universities, including Princeton, Syracuse and Northeastern.“This is not a sport you can rely on — you’re always just one injury away from losing everything.”Angus GosmanMr. Gosman did not even consider himself an athlete when he picked up an oar and stepped into a boat for the first time at the age of 13. But he loved it immediately.“There’s a level of camaraderie that is just unmatched when you’re in sync with the rowers,” he said. “I love the rhythm of it. When you’re going fast, it’s almost euphoric.”Though he knew the Marin Rowing Club had won national championships and boasted a history of sending students to top-tier schools, Mr. Gosman said he had never felt confident it would be his ticket into college.“This is not a sport you can rely on — you’re always just one injury away from losing everything,” he said. “With the recruitment process, you have to be constantly getting better and better.”Every weekday, Mr. Gosman wakes up in the morning no later than 6 a.m., attends class until practice starts at 4 p.m. and usually gets home about 9 p.m. Saturdays are set aside for races, and Sundays are his one day off.Managing college recruiters became a near constant side job for Mr. Gosman, who would send emails every few weeks with updates on his speeds for rowing two kilometers, telling recruiters about new personal records in races.His coaches in Marin helped guide him through the often bewildering process. There are strict rules from the N.C.A.A. about when a coach is allowed to speak with a high school athlete and what details they are allowed to exchange.His parents never pressured him, he said, but the appeal of being in college became clear quickly for Mr. Gosman. He flew across the country to visit Syracuse — the free trip was part of being recruited — and stayed in a dorm with rowers, watching them practice and attend class.Ultimately, Mr. Gosman was most taken by a school close to home: University of California, Berkeley. Last fall, while like most students he was still filling out applications, he reached a verbal commitment with the coach, all but assuring his admission.Still, he is anxiously awaiting the official admissions letter this month — if his grades slipped too much, he said, he could be rejected.It is impossible to know whether Mr. Gosman could have been admitted to Berkeley on his grades alone. Becoming a prized athletic recruit at a top school gives an applicant a serious edge, which is why the wealthy parents indicted last week bribed soccer, sailing and crew coaches to pretend their children were top athletes when they weren’t.Mr. Gosman has committed countless hours to become a true recruit. But will other students still look at him on campus and dismiss him as a jock who doesn’t deserve to be there? Maybe. No doubt, he said, being a top rower helped him “a lot.”“That’s not to say I don’t deserve it — I put my work in,” he said. “There’s a lot of responsibility: You’ve got to be on top of your sports and you’ve got to be on top of your school. You’ve no chance to rebound, you’ve got to be on top of all of it.”Audra D.S. Burch contributed reporting.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated in some passages the surname of the student who rows crew. He is Angus Gosman, not Carson.Alan Blinder is a national correspondent based in the Atlanta bureau. With a primary focus on his native South, he has reported from more than two dozen states since joining The Times in 2013.  @alanblinder Amy Harmon is a national correspondent, covering the intersection of science and society. She has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for her series “The DNA Age”, and as part of a team for the series “How Race Is Lived in America.”
   @amy_harmon • Facebook AdvertisementSupported byBy John KoblinLOS ANGELES — Fire your agents.That was the instruction the Writers Guild of America gave to its 13,000 members on Friday, after talks between the Hollywood writers and their agents broke down hours before a midnight deadline.The sudden end to negotiations upended a way of doing business that had been in place for more than four decades.The fight had been brewing for a year. The Writers Guild of America’s Los Angeles and New York branches accused the agents of enriching themselves at their clients’ expense and demanded that they agree to a new code of conduct.If the agents believed that the movie and television writers’ threat to break the bond between them  was a mere negotiating ploy, they learned it was a genuine stance when the talks fizzled out late Friday afternoon. The Association of Talent Agents, the group representing the major agencies, offered concessions in recent days, but their efforts were not enough to keep the two sides at the table.In an email blast sent to its members at the end of the failed talks, the Writers Guild of America said, “There is no settlement.”“We know that, together, we are about to enter uncharted waters,” the board of the two affiliated unions wrote. “Life that deviates from the current system might be various degrees of disorienting. But it has become clear that a big change is necessary.”[Writers and agents were once so close. TV’s new golden age has changed that.]The unions instructed members to sign a form letter that will allow them to fire their agents individually. “The Guild will forward all letters en masse to the appropriate agencies in a few days,” the unions said.The Association of Talent Agents said in a statement released at the end of talks that the planned mass firing “will hurt all artists, delivering an especially painful blow to midlevel and emerging writers.”The statement continued: “The W.G.A. leadership today declared a pathway for compromise doesn’t exist. Agencies have been committed to reaching an agreement with the W.G.A., but, despite our best efforts, today’s outcome was driven by the Guild’s predetermined course for chaos.”The TV writers and agents had been operating under a franchise agreement that took effect in 1976. That agreement was set to expire at 12:01 a.m. Saturday, when the Writers Guild of America would technically break ties with every agency that had not signed the new code of conduct.The four major agencies — William Morris Endeavor, Creative Artists Agency, United Talent Agency and ICM Partners — had been steadfast in shunning the writers’ attempt to make serious changes to the structure that has long been in place.The fight made for an unusual labor battle. The writers’ unions, which went on strike in 2007 and nearly did so again two years ago, have traditionally had disputes with their bosses at the big studios. This time, they have directed their fury with the people who have served as their advocates and friends.During a programming boom often referred to as Peak TV — 495 shows were available in the United States last year, thanks in part to the rise of streaming — television writers have claimed that their pay is stagnant or going down. The writers blame what they perceive as insufficient compensation on the agencies, accusing them of corrupt business practices.Two specific practices have gnawed at television writers. One is the agents’ decades-old habit of packaging a roster of talent from their pool of clients for a given project. In return, the agencies waive the usual 10 percent commission fee paid to them by individual clients and collect large sums, called packaging fees, from the studios. The writers claim that these deals allow the agents to effectively pocket money that should be theirs.The writers’ second complaint concerns how three of the major agencies — William Morris Endeavor, Creative Artists and the United Talent — have ventured into the production business with the creation of affiliated companies that produce and own content. This development, the writers say, can mean that agents sit across the table from executives who are essentially their colleagues in what the unions call a conflict of interest.The agencies have called the writers’ claims preposterous, arguing that their services are needed more than ever in a changing media environment in which Netflix, Amazon and Apple are on the rise.The writers have been adamant that the agencies must end the practices they find objectionable, which the code of conduct would accomplish. Last month, 7,882 members of the Writers Guild of America West and the Writers Guild of America East voted in favor of the new code of conduct, with just 392 members voting nay.The rupture between the writers and their agents will introduce disorder to Hollywood. The industry is approaching the so-called staffing season, when the broadcast networks assemble their fall lineups and hire writers to bang out telescripts for sitcoms and police procedurals. Agents are the usual go-betweens for the writers and studios, taking a strong hand in matching writers rooms with the appropriate writers.Union bosses have in recent days told writers that they would be able to apply for jobs through a web portal set up by the Writers Guild of America, or by empowering their managers or lawyers to make deals on their behalf.The agents have warned the writers against allowing managers or lawyers to do that kind of work.On Friday morning, Latham & Watkins, a law firm representing the talent agents, sent a letter to the union, saying it was “unlawful” in California and New York for managers and lawyers to take on the role of agents. The note also suggested that litigation could soon be filed in both directions.There were hints of the coming impasse on Thursday evening after the Association of Talent Agents went public with its counterproposals to the writers. Some people in Hollywood interpreted the association’s unusual step of revealing what had been happening during closed-door negotiations as a sign that the two sides were nowhere near a deal.With their counterproposals on Thursday, the agencies suggested that they wanted to continue with packaging and running their own affiliated production programs, but they were willing to make their practices more transparent.For shows with packaging arrangements, the agencies said they would share “a percentage” of their back-end profits with writers. More specifically, the agents said 80 percent of that share would be funneled toward writers who did not participate in profits on the series. The remaining 20 percent would go toward initiatives meant to improve diversity in writers’ rooms.On the production affiliate programs, the agents vowed to be more transparent and to meet with writers four times a year to discuss whether a show made with agencies’ sibling companies was “benefiting writers.” After two years, according to the counterproposal, if the unions continued to believe that writers were not doing well under the arrangement, they would have the right to reopen negotiations on the matter.The writers unions found both offers unsatisfactory. David Goodman, the president of the West branch, said that the revised packaging offer was “not a serious proposal” and that the production affiliate offer was “unacceptable.”Many bystanders — studio executives and producers — have likened the writers’ strategy to Brexit: unyielding, but where will it lead?“We will not only stand together, we will stand up for each other, lean on each other,” the unions said on Friday. “We can do this.”AdvertisementSupported byElected officials have made a lot of noise about the cost of prescription drugs. Now they must demand answers from pharmaceutical companies.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Twenty-five years ago, Congress hauled before it the top executives of the nation’s seven largest tobacco companies and forced them to make a number of long-overdue admissions about cigarettes — including that they might cause cancer and heart disease and that the executives had suppressed evidence of their addictive potential. In one dramatic exchange, when pressed by Representatives Henry Waxman and Ron Wyden, the executives denied that their products were addictive but admitted that they would not want their own children to use them.The hearing ushered in a public health victory for the ages. In its wake, lawmakers and health officials enacted measures that would ultimately bring smoking rates in the United States to an all-time low.With seven pharmaceutical executives set to testify before the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday, one can only hope for a similarly pivotal moment for prescription drug prices. Like their predecessors in the tobacco industry, the drug makers will testify at a time of near-universal anger over industry antics.Drug prices are soaring in a way that defies reason. A vial of insulin that cost less than $200 a decade ago now sells for closer to $1,500. Actimmune, a drug that treats severe malignant osteopetrosis and sells for less than $350 for a one-month supply in Britain, costs $26,000 for a one-month supply in the United States. And the prices of many drugs — that treat cancers, high blood pressure, allergies and more — have risen so much that average consumers are rationing them, at grave peril. Not even experts seem to know how those prices are set or why they keep rising. The industry’s own explanations — that other entities in America’s byzantine health care system are to blame for most price increases, and that its products are expensive and risky to make — are tough to swallow, given drug companies’ conspicuous profit margins. Its response to the crisis of soaring drug prices has been meager at best — and duplicitous at worst. Last year, several companies agreed to hold off on planned price increases, but only for six months, and only after President Trump chastised them on Twitter. Those same companies have aggressively resisted both state and federal efforts to enact formal changes to drug pricing rules.Mr. Trump has not kept his campaign promise to “negotiate like crazy” with drug makers to lower the cost of their products, and his statement last May that the industry would soon announce “voluntary, massive” price cuts came to naught. But his bluster on the issue, along with his blueprint for resolving it, have at least helped to keep a spotlight on the pharmaceutical industry and its questionable practices.If the members of the Senate Finance Committee want to make use of that spotlight, here’s what to ask executives on Tuesday:How do you determine list prices for drugs? Who decides the factors that go into the companies’ drug-pricing formulas, and why can’t those formulas be made public? Senators should also ask Olivier Brandicourt, the chief executive of Sanofi — the only major insulin maker scheduled to participate in the hearing — why the cost of insulin continues to rise year after year, given that the drug has been available for roughly a century, and in many cases still enjoys patent protection. On Friday, Senator Chuck Grassley and now-Senator Wyden, the ranking members on the Finance Committee, opened an investigation into insulin prices. What’s a fair profit margin for lifesaving products? A common lament among pharmaceutical executives has been that without enough profit from one drug, companies can’t afford to make the next one. That’s a fair point. Still, many leading companies enjoy billions of dollars a year in pure profit, even as lives are put at risk for want of basic medications. Insurers are subject to a 15 to 20 percent cap on profits and administrative expenses. Congress should consider a similar requirement for certain prescription drugs. How much do you spend on research and development, and where do those dollars go? Pharmaceutical companies routinely argue that drug prices are high because research and development is expensive and because any successful drug is preceded by many failures. Industry critics, however, note that a good deal of basic research is funded by the federal government, through the National Institutes of Health, and not by the drug makers. Many leading drug makers spend most of their research dollars looking for new uses of existing drugs, not on risky innovations. And independent studies show that research and development costs for drug companies are not large enough to explain high drug prices. Why would any drug need more than 100 patents? Patent protection enables drug makers to recoup the money they spend developing and marketing a new product. But most experts agree that leading drug makers have gamed this system: By applying for dozens of patents for minor technical tweaks that provide little clinical benefit, they stave off competition for decades.Take Humira, which treats inflammatory disorders like arthritis and Crohn’s disease, and is the best-selling prescription drug in the world. In the two decades since the drug came on the market, its maker has applied for 247 patents, according the Initiative for Medicines, Access and Knowledge; it is currently protected from competition by more than 100 such patents. Richard Gonzalez, the C.E.O. of AbbVie, the company that makes Humira, will appear at Tuesday’s hearing. Can he justify that practice?What will you change? The senators must not allow drug makers to point the finger elsewhere on Tuesday. Yes, insurance companies and other entities play a role in the drug cost crisis. But this hearing is not about them. It’s about the pharmaceutical companies. And those companies need to take meaningful steps toward lowering drug prices. If the Finance Committee members come prepared on Tuesday, they could finally force the industry to help relieve the strain.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.AdvertisementSupported byMINDSleep deprivation can make your physical aches more painful. A new study begins to explain how that happens.By Benedict CareyVeteran insomniacs know in their bones what science has to say about sleep deprivation and pain: that the two travel together, one fueling the other.For instance, people who develop chronic pain often lose the ability to sleep well, and quickly point to a bad back, sciatica or arthritis as the reason. The loss of sleep, in turn, can make a bad back feel worse, and the next night’s slumber even more difficult.Why sleep deprivation amplifies pain is not fully worked out, but it has to do with how the body responds to an injury such as a cut or turned ankle. First, it hurts, as nerves send a blast up the spinal cord and into the brain. There, a network of neural regions flares in reaction to the injury and works to manage, or blunt, the sensation. Think of the experience as a kind of physiological dialogue between the ground unit that took the hit and the command-control center trying to contain the damage. In a new study, a team of neuroscientists has clarified the nature of the top-down portion of that exchange, and how it is affected by sleep. In a sleep-lab experiment, the researchers found that a single night of sleep deprivation reduced a person’s pain threshold by more than 15 percent and left a clear signature in the brain’s pain-management centers. In a separate experiment, the team determined that small deviations in the average amount of sleep from one day to another predicted the level of overall pain felt the next day.“What’s exciting about these findings is that they will stimulate, and justify, doing more research to figure this system out,” said Michael J. Twery, director of the sleep disorders branch of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, who was not involved in the new study. “Once we understand how sleep deprivation changes how these pathways function, we should be able to manage pain more effectively — all types of pain.” [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]Other researchers cautioned that the study was small, and in need of larger replication. But, they said, at a time when chronic pain conditions and narcotic addiction are on the rise, the new work is a pointed reminder that the body’s own ability to manage pain can be improved without a prescription.The study team, led by Adam J. Krause and Matthew P. Walker of the University of California, Berkeley, had 25 adults come into the lab on two occasions to measure their pain threshold for heat. Two measurements were taken from each subject, one in the morning after a full night’s sleep, and one in the morning after staying up all night. The two visits occurred at least a week apart, and included measurements in a brain-imaging machine.The subjects judged the pain sensation of having a small, heated pad pressed against their skin, near the ankle. By gradually adjusting the temperature up and down, the researchers identified the level of pain that each person graded as 10, or “unbearable,” on a scale of 1 to 10.Pulling an all-nighter increased everyone’s sensitivity to heat the next morning, by 15 to 30 percent on the pain scale. This wasn’t unexpected; previous research had produced similar findings, for a variety of painful sensations. But the brain imaging added a new dimension: For each participant, activity spiked in pain perception regions, and plunged in regions thought to help manage or reduce pain. The biggest peaks were in the somatosensory cortex, a strip of neural tissue that runs across the top of the brain like a headphone band. This is the seat of the so-called homunculus, the distorted “little man” neural map of the body; it seems to be where the perception of pain becomes a conscious “ouch.” The lowest troughs of activity occurred in deeper brain regions such as the thalamus and nucleus accumbens.“So you have two things happening at once here,” said Dr. Walker, director of the Center for Human Sleep Science at U.C. Berkeley. “There’s ramped up sensation to pain, and a loss of natural analgesic reaction. The fact that both of them happen was surprising.”Deliberate sleep deprivation is rare in the natural world — robins and squirrels tend not to stay up late to catch “Saturday Night Live” — so it may be that no backup systems have evolved to help restore or tune the brain’s pain management system, Dr. Walker said.In a separate trial, the research team recruited 60 adults online who reported having daily pain. The participants rated their sleep and pain over two days, scoring the previous night’s slumber in the mornings, and their pain level in the evenings.For each individual, poor sleep quality predicted higher ratings on the daily pain scale. The duration of sleep was not the critical factor, the study found; what mattered were alterations to deep sleep, the mostly dreamless period of rich slumber.The implications of the new work are wide-ranging, perhaps starting with hospitals, where noise levels are high and interruptions frequent. Handing out earplugs and sleep masks, as the airlines do, would be a cheap way to speed recovery and shorten hospital stays, the study’s authors suggested.AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex MarshallThe Vienna State Opera’s ballet academy vowed to reform its practices after former students and staff said dancers as young as 11 were kicked, scratched and handled roughly in classes.Others said they were regularly pressured to lose weight. Another said they had been sexually abused.“Many children have lost their dream to dance,” said Luisa Solowjowa, 20, a former student, in a telephone interview. She said a teacher once kicked her “like a football.”The academy acknowledged that students had been subject to physical and emotional abuse after allegations were reported on Tuesday by Falter, an Austrian newsmagazine.Investigations by the magazine “uncovered very unpleasant incidents, which are completely intolerable and which we regret greatly: Some individuals have behaved very badly,” the academy said in a statement. “The students who were subject to physical or emotional abuse have our deepest sympathy,” it added.Students said that Bella Ratchinskaia, a teacher at the school, at times went beyond the limits of normal practice during ballet classes, roughly forcing their limbs into position or scratching them as she adjusted their bodies, sometimes drawing blood. André Comploi, a spokesman for the State Opera, said that Ms. Ratchinskaia, who previously worked at La Scala in Milan, was dismissed in February.Ms. Ratchinskaia did not reply to a request for comment but said in a statement provided by the academy: “Contact is a part of the training in this profession — it is necessary to touch to make corrections in ballet classes, and this is done all over the world. To the students who I have hurt, I apologize sincerely. I never injured anyone deliberately, and it was never done maliciously.”Another teacher who was accused of sexual assault was suspended on Monday pending an investigation by Austrian prosecutors. According to Sharon Booth, a former teacher who said she had spoken with the student involved, the teacher is accused of trying to get the student, a boy who was 16 at the time, to masturbate him. Mr. Comploi said that the teacher denies the allegation.In a statement on Tuesday, the State Opera announced several measures to improve conditions at the ballet academy, including the appointment of a psychologist and an independent ombudsman whom students could complain to if they were mistreated. From September, the school’s teachers and students will receive compulsory training in nutrition, the statement said.“There have been a few initiatives before, in terms of nutrition and body image and so on,” Mr. Comploi said in a telephone interview. "But obviously not enough.”Vienna’s Children’s and Youth Protection Unit said in a statement on Wednesday it had been working with the ballet academy since December and that the school needed “a fundamental reworking of pedagogical attitudes and practices.” Austria’s culture minister ordered a commission to create rules for dance teachers.The scandal is the latest to hit the ballet world following sexual harassment allegations at both the New York City Ballet and the Paris Opera Ballet. Modern dance has not escaped these problems. Last year, there were allegations of mistreatment and sexual harassment at Troubleyn, a dance company in Belgium led by the choreographer Jan Fabre.But this is the first major case involving children, and the allegations against the academy, although specific, raise larger issues about how dancers are trained from an early age to obey teachers, directors and choreographers, and so find it difficult to speak out about inappropriate treatment.The scandal also raises issues around the desire for dancers to look slim, and whether that means some dancers, even when children, are pressured into unhealthy practices.“Schools try to change the bodies of students, instead of changing their teaching,” said Martin Puttke, former head of the State Ballet School in Berlin, in a telephone interview. The aggressive teaching methods used by some teachers at the Vienna ballet school were not typical, he said.The Vienna State Opera stressed the accused teachers were a minority. “The majority of people working for the academy are doing excellent jobs,” it said in its statement. “It would be unfair to them if everyone and everything were thrown in the same pot.”The alleged victims of abuse at the academy were identified in Falter by pseudonyms, but The New York Times spoke to two former students who said they had been mistreated by Ms. Ratchinskaia and had faced continual comments about their weight from other teachers.“I left the school two years ago, two weeks before my final exams,” said Ms. Solowjowa, who started classes at the academy at age 6. “I just couldn’t handle it anymore.”When she was 14, Ms. Solowjowa said, Ms. Ratchinskaia kicked her ankle so hard she fell over and suffered ligament damage that required two months’ rest. She said she had seen Ms. Ratchinskaia pull students’ hair to adjust their head positions and press down on their limbs so hard it bruised.Ms. Ratchinskaia was “crazy about ballet, and still is, and wanted the best from us,” Ms. Solowjowa said, but added that such methods were “not right, especially with children.”Nina Veech, 19, another former student, said in a telephone interview that she had also witnessed rough treatment, but that the “biggest issue” for her was that some teachers verbally attacked students, especially about their weight. “They’d say things like, ‘You’re too fat, you should just drink water and eat pineapple for the weekend,’ ” Ms. Veech said.“It was like a psychodrama,” Ms. Veech added of one teacher’s obsession with students’ weight. “We did a performance and she said, ‘You have to lose 4 kilos. The stage makes you look fatter.’ ” Ms. Veech said she developed “bulimic tendencies” during her time at the school.The students in her class were once invited to an eating disorder workshop with a nutritionist, Ms. Veech added, but that was on a weekend and not compulsory.Both Ms. Solowjowa and Ms. Veech said they had complained on multiple occasions about Ms. Ratchinskaia and other teachers to Simona Noja-Nebyla, the school’s managing director, but that she had not taken their complaints seriously enough. Ms. Veech said Ms. Ratchinskaia had been present at a meeting to discuss the complaint, and she had felt that she could not speak freely.In a statement, Ms. Noja-Nebyla said she had reacted promptly when concerns about Ms. Ratchinskaia were raised. She said that Ms. Ratchinskaia received a written warning in 2016, although she did not explain why.Ms. Booth, the former teacher, said in a telephone interview that she had once seen Ms. Ratchinskaia kick the feet of an 11-year-old student into position while wearing hard-toed shoes. Students, teachers and parents complained to the school about treatment like this, but little was done, she added. Ms. Ratchinskaia was moved from teaching younger students to the graduating class, but that seemed like a promotion, Ms. Booth said.Ms. Veech said she hoped that dance schools everywhere would change, not just the Vienna academy. “I was just reading this interview where a dancer said, ‘My suffering today will be my success tomorrow,’ ” she said. “And I thought, ‘O.K., but what happens to all the students who don’t ever stop suffering? Who have no tomorrow?’ ”AdvertisementSupported byAt war In this week’s At War newsletter: An investigative report obtained by The Times reveals new details about one of the Vietnam War’s worst friendly-fire incidents.By John IsmayAt War is a newsletter about the experiences and costs of war with stories from Times reporters and outside voices.In the desperate fight for Hill 875 in South Vietnam’s Central Highlands, at least 20 soldiers from the United States Army’s 173rd Airborne Brigade were killed in one of the deadliest friendly-fire incidents of the entire Vietnam War. Just past dusk on Nov. 19, 1967, a Marine Corps A-4 attack jet dropped two 250-pound Mk-81 Snakeye bombs, which landed inside the 173rd’s hastily formed defensive perimeter. One of the bombs was a dud; the other exploded as it hit a tree, under which was the American command post as well as the collection point for the unit’s most seriously wounded soldiers.The story is based on an unredacted Air Force investigation, whose details have not previously been made public, into the incident and first-person accounts from service members who were there, including Jon Wambi Cook, a soldier who survived the battle. Cook vividly remembers what happened on the ground in the moments after the blast, as the investigative report recounts what happened in the air above him. The combined narratives point to the sorrow and doubt that endure for a lifetime after a battlefield mistake.In reporting this story (read it in full here), I consulted with two people who have written extensively on what became known as the Battle of Dak To. One, Edward F. Murphy, scoured the National Archives for records related to the battle before publishing a book about the fight in 1993. The second was a retired Army infantry colonel named Leonard B. Scott, who wrote his graduate thesis about the battle while a student at the Army War College in 1988, and searched through the school library’s hoard of primary-source documents related to Dak To. Both men told me that they had never seen the report before.[Get a weekly roundup of Times coverage of war delivered to your inbox. Sign up here.]Scott’s research helped him piece together what he heard as a young lieutenant when he reported as a platoon leader in the 173rd, arriving in Vietnam about a year after the Battle of Dak To. Back then, he said, the consensus was that the South Vietnamese were responsible for the errant strike, not the Americans. But the investigation, which was kept from view by the Defense Department, shows that though there were two A-1 Skyraider airplanes above Hill 875 during the battle, they were flown by the United States Air Force and not by the South Vietnamese, and they did not drop the bomb that night, a Marine Corps A-4 attack jet did. Scott heard more or less the same story throughout the 1970s and 1980s in professional settings and officers clubs alike, and Scott didn’t question it. “It kind of explained away everything for me,” Scott said. “It’s just easier to point to someone else, especially when there’s the option to point at someone else.” It wasn’t until I spoke to him earlier this month about the report’s findings did he finally learn that the South Vietnamese were not to blame for the short round. The investigation makes it clear exactly who dropped that bomb: a United States Marine lieutenant colonel who commanded an A-4 Skyhawk squadron at Chu Lai. Now living in an assisted-care facility, I spoke with the former pilot at length about Dak To. He still prays it was someone else who was responsible.Tuesday, Feb. 5, 2019 | New York CityA rare convergence of experts on the human costs of war will discuss the often-ignored outgrowth of the global war on terror: two decades of civilian casualties. Times journalist and Marine Corps infantry veteran C. J. Chivers, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for his 2016 story about an Afghan war veteran suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, will moderate the discussion. The panelists are Alissa J. Rubin, the Times Paris bureau chief who won a Pulitzer Prize for foreign reporting on Afghanistan in 2015; Azmat Khan, an investigative reporter and New York Times Magazine contributor, who uncovered civilian casualties among nearly 150 airstrike sites across northern Iraq; and writer Brian Castner, a veteran of the Iraq war and weapons expert for Amnesty International’s crisis team, who also investigates war crimes and human rights violations.Get tickets here.Afghan Women Fear Peace With Taliban May Mean War on Them: The idea of an American troop withdrawal fills Afghan women with dread, as they see Westerners as their only protectors not just from the Taliban, but also the “Taliban mentality” among other men.U.S. and Taliban Agree in Principle to Peace Framework, Envoy Says: The U.S. negotiator, Zalmay Khalilzad, says that finalizing a deal would hinge on a cease-fire and Taliban talks with Afghans, which they are discussing now.This Man Is Revered Among the Taliban. Can He End the Afghan War?: Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar is expected to join peace talks with the Americans.With U.S. and Taliban in Talks, Afghans Fear They Could End Up Trampled: There are concerns in Afghanistan’s government that the Americans could be headed for a separate deal with the Taliban, if that is what it takes to get their troops out.Taliban Talks Raise Question of What U.S. Withdrawal From Afghanistan Could Mean: A hasty American withdrawal, experts said, would erode the authority and legitimacy of the Afghan government, raising the risk that the Taliban could recapture control.Our Dreams of Peace: Envisioning an End to War in Afghanistan: Two New York Times reporters from Afghanistan find themselves suddenly dreaming of what they will do if peace comes — as are their friends, and even some Taliban.Why Did Soviets Invade Afghanistan? Documents Offer History Lesson for Trump: President Trump claimed the Soviet Union went to war in 1979 to battle terrorists. But a newly published cable underscores Moscow’s fear that Afghanistan would switch loyalties to the West.AdvertisementSupported byBy Neil GenzlingerSeweryn Bialer, who endured persecution by the Nazis in Poland and served in its postwar Communist government before defecting to the West and becoming a leading expert on the Soviet Union, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 92.His wife, the scholar Joan Afferica, said the cause was heart failure.Professor Bialer, who taught at Columbia University for 33 years, was a sought-after voice on Soviet affairs, testifying to congressional committees, participating in conferences, writing commentaries in journals and newspapers and appearing on television and radio.He was especially in demand in the 1980s as the Soviet Union went through a series of upheavals, including the deaths of three leaders in rapid succession — Leonid I. Brezhnev, Yuri V. Andropov and Konstantin U. Chernenko — and the emergence of Mikhail S. Gorbachev. If few Kremlinologists foresaw just how much turbulence Mr. Gorbachev’s tenure would bring, Professor Bialer at least realized early on that the new leader was a harbinger of change.“The free lunch period is over,” he told The Boston Globe in April 1985, reflecting on the likelihood that the West would no longer be dealing with Soviet stagnation under aging, ill leaders. His comment came just a month after Mr. Gorbachev replaced Chernenko as general secretary of the Communist Party.Professor Bialer was well regarded for illuminating Soviet history, as he did in his first book, “Stalin and His Generals: Soviet Military Memoirs of World War II” (1969). The book assembled excerpts from the writings of the country’s wartime leaders to shed light on how a man as unstable as Joseph Stalin could have led a successful war effort.“Thanks to Bialer’s editorial skill,” William E. Butler wrote in reviewing the book in The Globe, “we have remarkable insight into the decision-making apparatus, the work habits, and the personal relationships within the Soviet High Command during a period of extreme crisis.”Professor Bialer influenced generations of students, some of whom became scholars themselves, like Linda J. Cook, a professor of political science and Slavic studies at Brown University.“Professor Bialer was brilliant and engaging in the classroom,” she said by email, “and, because of his experience living in Eastern Europe before he came to Columbia, he had a unique ability to explain Soviet politics to American students and colleagues.”Seweryn Bialer (pronounced seh-VER-in BYA-ler) was born on Nov. 3, 1926, in Berlin and raised in Lodz, Poland, in a prominent Jewish family. At 13, with the country under German occupation, he was relocated to the Jewish ghetto in Lodz. There he discovered the writings of Karl Marx, which later became an area of his expertise, and joined the Communist underground. For almost a year at the end of the war he was imprisoned at the Auschwitz and Friedland camps.After the war ended, Professor Bialer held posts in the Polish government and the Polish Communist Party. He later told a congressional committee, “I was one of the chiefs of the anti-Western and anti-American propaganda.”He was also admitted to the Polish Academy of Sciences Institute for the Education of Scientific Cadres, receiving a doctorate there with a dissertation on the Marshall Plan.In 1954, the year after Stalin died, Professor Bialer made his first trip to the Soviet Union as part of a delegation from the Polish Communist Party, and his disenchantment began.“I came to realize that the system there involved all of the things I had fought against in Nazism,” he told The New York Times in 1986. “And I made my decision on this basis to leave that system at the first opportunity.”The opportunity came in January 1956, when, on an official trip to East Berlin, he defected to West Berlin. By June of that year he was testifying before a Senate Judiciary subcommittee about the inner workings of the Soviet system. That year he also published an essay in the journal News From Behind the Iron Curtain titled, “I Chose Truth: A Former Leading Communist’s Story.”“For a very long time I thought that poverty, waste, terror, and falsehood were the inevitable price every revolution has to pay for progress,” he wrote. “Having been for many years active in the Party, I was thoroughly familiar with its working methods, its system of government, and I arrived at the conclusion that it was a system doomed to live on corruption, generate waste, and produce poverty.”After several years as a research analyst for United States government agencies, Professor Bialer joined the Columbia faculty in 1964 and began work on his Ph.D. there, earning it in political science in 1966 with a dissertation on the Soviet political elite.In 1980 Professor Bialer published his second book, “Stalin’s Successors: Leadership, Stability and Change in the Soviet Union.”“In the next decade,” the historian James Chace wrote in reviewing it for The Times, “the world is likely to be a more dangerous place than anything we have known for at least a generation. In order to contain almost certain disorder, we had best try to understand the sources of Soviet conduct, and reading Seweryn Bialer is one of the best ways to begin.”In 1983 he received a MacArthur Foundation “genius grant.” In 1986 he published another book, “The Soviet Paradox: External Expansion, Internal Decline.” He also edited or contributed to many others.He married Ms. Afferica, now the L. Clark Seelye professor emeritus of history at Smith College, in 1967. She is his only immediate survivor.AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken Belson and Benedict CareyExperimental brain scans of more than two dozen former N.F.L. players found that the men had abnormal levels of the protein linked to chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative brain disease associated with repeated hits to the head.Using positron emission tomography, or PET, scans, the researchers found “elevated amounts of abnormal tau protein” in the parts of the brain associated with the disease, known as C.T.E., compared to men of similar age who had not played football.The authors of the study and outside experts stressed that such tau imaging is far from a diagnostic test for C.T.E., which is likely years away and could include other markers, from blood and spinal fluid.The results of the study, published in The New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday, are considered preliminary, but constitute a first step toward developing a clinical test to determine the presence of C.T.E. in living players, as well as early signs and potential risk.Thus far, pathologists have been able to confirm the diagnosis only posthumously, by identifying the tau signature in donated brains.Previous studies had reported elevated levels of the tau signature in single cases. The new study is the first to compare the brains of a group of former players to a control group, using an imaging approach that specifically picks up tau and not other proteins in the brain.“What makes this exciting is that it’s a great first step for imaging C.T.E. in the living, not just looking at single instances, but comparing averages and looking for patterns by comparing groups,” said Kevin Bieniek, director of the Biggs Institute Brain Bank Core at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San Antonio.Dr. Bieniek was not involved in the study.Over the past decade, the competition for research dollars to investigate C.T.E. has become fierce and political, with charges of exaggerated claims and interference by the N.F.L., which has produced scientific reports to rebut any link between the disease and repeated head trauma.The group that develops the first useful clinical test stands to attract a surge of funding, not to mention potential commercial partnerships. At least one group, in California, has already formed a company to promote its own test.The new study was led by Dr. Robert Stern of Boston University, which thus far has the largest collection of donated brains from former pro football players. He led a coalition of investigators at multiple centers who took brain images from 26 former pro players, aged 40 to 69, who had a variety of memory, mood and mental problems associated with C.T.E.Those images showed marked elevation of tau proteins in the areas of the brain that display the tau signature when diagnosed post-mortem. The players’ tau signal in those areas was higher, on average, than the tau signal from a control group of men who had not played.“We found, as well, that the amount of abnormal tau detected in these PET scans was associated with the number of years playing football,” Dr. Stern said.His collaborators included brain scientists from the Mayo Clinic Arizona, Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Avid Radiopharmaceuticals. Avid makes a molecule, called a ligand, that binds to proteins, in this case in the brain. Avid’s ligand is the most studied of the so-called tau detectors, and the company helped finance the study.Experts said the findings were encouraging, because any reliable marker for abnormal tau accumulation would allow doctors not only to identify people with C.T.E., but also to monitor progress from potential drug treatments.But, these experts said, much more work is required to develop a reliable test for a disorder that is still not well understood. As in tests for people suffering from Alzheimer’s and other diseases that affect the brain, researchers have spent years trying to precisely refine the ligands that are ingested by patients before they receive PET scans and other imaging tests.There are also many open questions about the tau protein that is a signature of C.T.E. Researchers are trying to determine whether the protein, which occurs naturally in the brain, accumulates faster in people who have received repeated head trauma, and how those accumulating levels are related to behaviors associated with C.T.E., which include not only memory deficits but also impulse control issues and symptoms of depression.The new study found no correlation between the strength of the abnormal tau signature and the severity of cognitive and mood problems in the former players, though the sample was small.The search for a test for C.T.E. in living patients has received intense scrutiny since the disease was first discovered in deceased professional football players 15 years ago.The universe of professional players is relatively small — only about 2,000 active players and 20,000 retirees — and the Boston group’s work has been based on a sample of some of the worst cases. Many, perhaps most, pro football players do not develop disabling cognitive problems, and there are likely many other brain traumas that could potentially result in the C.T.E. tau signature.Yet football is by far the country’s most popular sport, with more than a million high school students playing the tackle version of the game. The detection of C.T.E. in former pro players turned what was viewed as an occupational hazard into a public health debate. For years now, parents, coaches, school administrators, doctors and others have engaged in a dispute over whether children should be allowed to play collision sports.Part of that dispute is trying to prove (or disprove) whether there is a direct link between exposure to repeated hits to the head absorbed in games like tackle football and the development of cognitive and neurological problems later in life.Here, the science is emerging. Studies by Dr. Stern and other researchers, including in the paper just released, suggest that there is a dose response — the more hits to the head, the more likely you are to develop problems later.But researchers have questioned studies that have shown a high percentage of deceased former football players found with C.T.E. They claimed that the research subjects were self-selected because the families of players who suspected they had brain disease were more likely to donate their brains to science.Some researchers are looking at broader populations of people who have had traumatic brain injury, not just football players, to determine whether participation in collision sports, as opposed to genetics or other factors, is linked to the development of C.T.E.“There’s a lot of lower-level head trauma out there that no one knows the consequence of,” said Dr. John Trojanowski, a research at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, who plans to submit a research paper in the coming months on people who have suffered traumatic brain injury. “We are looking at people with traumatic brain injury, football players, rugby players, some people who fell off bikes.”Even when tau is found in PET scans, many other questions remain.“Identifying the tau is just a first step,” said Dr. Alexander Powers, associate professor of neurosurgery, pediatrics and orthopedics at Wake Forest School of Medicine. “Is tau increasing in the brain? And what is the rate? Does it steadily increase? Or rapidly, like cancer? And what are the factors that led to it?”AdvertisementSupported byIt would stand as a lasting reminder of the white racial hostility surging through this moment in American history.By Jamelle BouieOpinion ColumnistThis is Jamelle Bouie’s debut column.The wall of Donald Trump’s campaign and presidency has always operated both as a discrete proposal — an actual structure to be built under his leadership — and as a symbol with a clear meaning. Whether praised by its supporters or condemned by its opponents, the wall is a stand-in for the larger promise of broad racial (and religious) exclusion and domination. It’s no surprise, then, that some Americans use “Build the wall” as a racist chant, much like the way they invoke the president’s name. And it’s also why, despite the pain and distress of the extended government shutdown, Democrats are right to resist any deal with the White House that includes funding for its construction.That’s not to say there aren’t practical reasons for Democrats to resist the proposals on hand. The president calls his most recent bid a major compromise, but its headline provision — protections for immigrants covered by either Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals or Temporary Protected Status — are short-term and limited. It also puts a cap on the number of Central American migrant children and teenagers who can receive asylum, requiring them to apply in their home countries, while also eliminating automatic court hearings for minors who arrive at the border in order to streamline the deportation process. Together with its $5.7 billion for “the wall,” it’s less a compromise than a near capitulation to the president’s vision for immigration policy — a vision he could not get through Congress when he had Republican majorities in both chambers. A border wall also just won’t work — erecting a barrier does nothing to solve the political conflicts and economic pressures that drive migration to the United States.Agreeing to this deal — or any deal beyond a straightforward bill to end the shutdown — would only validate the president’s extortion tactics, adopted after conservatives pressured him at the end of last year to reject a so-called clean bipartisan bill to fund the government. To agree to wall funding in these circumstances would guarantee a repeat performance the next time President Trump wants to secure a legislative “win” without the difficult work of negotiating with Congress, much less his opposition.But the paramount reason for resisting this deal, and any other, is what it would mean symbolically to erect the wall or any portion of it. Like Trump himself, it would represent a repudiation of the pluralism and inclusivity that characterizes America at its best. It would stand as a lasting reminder of the white racial hostility surging through this moment in American history, a monument to this particular drive to preserve the United States as a white man’s country.In fact, you can almost think of the wall as a modern-day Confederate monument, akin to those erected during a similar but far more virulent period of racist aggression in the first decades of the 20th century. Built as shrines to white racial dominance as much as memorials for any particular soldier, they were part of a larger, national drive to uphold white supremacy against what one nativist thinker termed a “rising tide of color.”This manifested itself across American society. At the grass roots, there was the reconstituted Ku Klux Klan, inspired by D.W. Griffith’s heroic 1915 depiction of Reconstruction-era “night riders” in “The Birth of a Nation.” The Klan strove to secure the power of the white petite bourgeoisie against perceived threats from capital and labor as well as uphold a stridently anti-immigrant, anti-Catholic, anti-Semitic and anti-black vision of white patriarchal authority. At the elite level, likewise, lawmakers and intellectuals fretted about the impact of an influx of immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe, as well as China and Japan. Their answer was something of a legislative wall — the 1924 Johnson-Reed Act, which sharply limited European immigration and all but banned it from much of Asia. (A former influential member of the Trump administration praised that law for its severe restrictions on who could enter the United States.)The wall of Trump’s rhetoric and imagination channels all of this, up to and including the nativist tropes that associate nonwhite immigrants with crime and disorder. “BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!” the president said in a Wednesday morning tweet.It is true that Democrats have backed both barriers and harsh border policies in the past. President Barack Obama repeatedly offered strict immigration enforcement in return for Republican buy-in to comprehensive reforms. Now Democratic leaders have committed to new funding for additional border security. And the House majority whip, Jim Clyburn, has floated the possibility that Democrats could be moved on funding for the wall, provided it’s a “smart” wall. If, beyond Trump, the larger concern is policies that militarize the border and dehumanize migrants, then Democrats have had a significant part in creating the status quo.But the president’s wall still looms as a racist provocation, a total repudiation of what the historian John Higham called “America’s cosmopolitan faith — a concept of nationality that stresses the diversity of the nation’s origins, the egalitarian dimension of its self-image, and the universality of its founding principles.” For Trump the wall signals his commitment to upholding existing hierarchies and strengthening their material foundations; for his supporters it validates their fears of cultural conquest. For the targets of their anxiety and aggression, it is a threat.Early into the government shutdown, Speaker Nancy Pelosi called the wall “immoral.” She used the right word. The wall is a symbol of exclusion. If even a portion were built, that segment would serve as a modern monument to the worst of our nation’s heritage. No deal or compromise could justify that moral cost.AdvertisementSupported byWe redefined the term to include all the staple ingredients that make your cooking better and faster.By Julia MoskinFor many cooks, January brings new resolve to an eternal goal: having a well-stocked pantry. You may crave shelf systems and bulk ingredients, and sparkling new containers to keep them in. But look more closely at those catalogs and Instagram posts, and ask yourself: Will my spice jars ever truly match? Do I really need to store apples in a hanging basket? Often, the ideas are about decorating, not cooking.A truly functional pantry may not look flawless. But it can be the key to more and better cooking — as long as the contents fit your real-world cooking style and skills, so that you actually use what’s in it.A traditional English or American pantry (in homes fortunate enough to have multipart kitchens and extra food to store) was a small room off the kitchen to protect everyday ingredients, like flour, sugar and bread, from the heat of the stove. Along with a larder (for cured meat, lard and the foods preserved in it), a buttery (for wine, cider and beer, stored in barrels or “butts”) and a storeroom for dried and preserved produce, a pantry produced not only meals but a self-reliant kitchen.A modern pantry can and should play all those parts. So we redefined the word to include the fresh and frozen staples that can make cooking easier and more productive. For example, whole-milk yogurt and lemons wouldn’t always have qualified as pantry ingredients. But now, those ingredients are used so often in recipes that it makes sense for cooks to keep them on hand. They last a long time in the refrigerator, and can often eliminate the need for a stop on the way home.We’ve identified three types of home cooks among our readers, and created a pantry list for each one. Now, we know that no two people will agree on a list of staples, just as they will never agree on a perfect recipe for macaroni and cheese. Each list is a proposal, not a prescription. There’s no reason to stock black beans if you like only red. There’s no need to have everything here available at all times. You’ll know your pantry is well stocked for your purposes when most of the time, you need only add one or two fresh ingredients to cook from scratch. Or even better, none.[Read more about how to stock your pantry.]Whether overhauling or starting a pantry, you don’t need vats of homemade stock and a dedicated room: just free some space in the freezer, refrigerator and cupboards. So, clear the decks: Take everything out, give it a hard look and decide what you can get rid of.Carla Lalli Music, author of the forthcoming book “Where Cooking Begins” (Clarkson Potter, 2019), is the food director at Bon Appétit, where the test kitchen is enormous and overflowing. But at home, she has been paring down her pantry for years. “I used to keep ingredients forever, even though they made me feel guilt and anxiety,” she said, like a decade-old spice mix that her husband brought her from Paris, and honey mustard that a friend contributed to a dinner party.“I don’t like honey mustard; I have never liked honey mustard,” she said. “Why did I have to have this complicated relationship with it in my refrigerator door?”When it comes to your own pantry, try to be ruthless. If you haven’t used it in a year, get rid of it. Then restock with an eye to the things you’re confident using, and what you love to eat.Ms. Music recommends the restaurant rule of ingredients: F.I.F.O., or first-in, first-out. In other words, cook what you have in order of freshness, and don’t let things linger. If that cauliflower you bought a week ago is beginning to wilt, cook it — even if you’re not sure how you’ll use it. Cooked ingredients are much easier to use up than fresh ones. If you use only the new ingredients, pushing the older ones to the back, they will disappear and then deteriorate. Used this way, pantry ingredients build a healthy ecosystem in your kitchen, defined as more cooking and less waste. When bacon, eggs and Parmesan are defined as pantry ingredients, you already have the makings of multiple dishes: a big breakfast, a frittata for lunch, a dinner-worthy pile of fried rice. (If you keep packs of ramen on hand, you can even make a quick, one-pot pasta carbonara that is surprisingly close to the Roman original.) Add frozen spinach, lemons, and potatoes — all of which can be stored for many weeks — and another dimension opens up. Finally, accept that your pantry will never be fully stocked and perfectly organized. Cooking creates change and disorder. Cans of tomatoes may never stack perfectly, spices may never live in matching containers, and your hot-sauce collection may always be attempting a takeover of the condiment shelf. Think of it all as signs of life. And then, next January, start the process all over again. Recipe: Ramen CarbonaraAdvertisementSupported byThe Neediest Cases FundBy John OtisWith a blue marker, Isabella Williams traces an outline of her mother’s hand onto a sheet of construction paper. Their collaborative piece of art could not have been made as effortlessly just a few weeks earlier.Isabella moved in with her mother, Zalika Williams, at the end of November, as part of a trial discharge from the foster care system. Previously, the pair saw each other twice a week during supervised visits.“It’s been a journey,” said Ms. Williams, 29, of Isabella’s return. “It’s been so exciting.”After her birth in early 2016, Isabella was taken from Ms. Williams’s custody by hospital staff because of her mother’s substance abuse. Ms. Williams said she started drinking alcohol and smoking marijuana at 16.“I used to be happier,” Ms. Williams said of her early high school years. “After a while, I wasn’t doing the things that I really wanted to do, that I dreamed I would be doing.”After graduating, she attended Medgar Evers College in Brooklyn for a semester. A certification she received in high school allowed her to find work as a nursing assistant, but she quit after a few years.“I didn’t really think about my future,” Ms. Williams said. “I always thought I would go away to college or something. That was the idea, that things would fall into place, that things would come together. But as I continued into the abuse, it never happened that way.”No matter how much or how often she drank, she never did it alone, which masked the severity of her problem.“I was in with a few different crowds,” Ms. Williams said. “I would spread myself out. If I wasn’t feeling them, I would go to the next crew who would enable me.”Her self-destructive behavior accelerated, and she brushed off the concerns of family members, spending her rent money on partying.“When I would get the urge to go out and drink or use pot, nothing would stop me,” Ms. Williams said.In 2014, a doctor told her she had anxiety and schizophrenia. Ms. Williams met the news with denial, despite experiencing symptoms of each illness: extreme mood swings, panic attacks, even hearing voices. She said she believed alcohol had been the cause. Medication did not help, she believed, so she stopped taking it.But giving birth to and then losing custody of Isabella changed Ms. Williams’s outlook.“I wanted to have a life, I wanted my daughter to have a life,” she said. “I have dreams, I have ambition. It was beginning to dwindle. It was going away.”In late 2016, Ms. Williams admitted herself to Gracie Square Hospital, which offers care for patients with psychiatric disorders. After two months, the hospital connected her to Serendipity II of New York Therapeutic Communities, a residential program for women. Ms. Williams stayed for 22 months.New York Therapeutic Communities is a member agency of F.P.W.A., one of eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.At Serendipity, Ms. Williams participated in the Recovery Through Entrepreneurship program, which received a $20,000 grant in Neediest Funds last year. The yearlong program helps those in recovery use entrepreneurial skills to acquire skills in vocational readiness, networking and personal finance.Ms. Williams has been sober for two years, she said.“Just thinking about it makes me emotional, because I don’t ever want to be back there again,” she said. “I don’t want to make excuses to drink or to get high.”In the last couple of years, Ms. Williams returned to college and earned an associate degree in paralegal studies from the Mildred Elley educational organization. She is looking for work and hopes to continue pursuing her education in law. But right now, Ms. Williams has more immediate priorities.“Trying to bond with my daughter is the first thing on my list,” she said.As part of her recovery, she also attends Narcotics Anonymous meetings, and she herself uses the aftercare service at Serendipity. Ms. Williams said she has learned to confront her mental illness head on, diligently taking her medications.“If you don’t get it, it’ll get you,” she said, adding: “The more comfortable I feel about it, the better off I’ll be.”Ms. Williams is candid about her fears of relapsing. There are moments when the lifestyle calls to her, she said. She has tricks to staying the course, like never meeting people at a bar and always having a destination in mind when she leaves home.“You have to have somewhere to go. You have to have a life, a busy life to really do this sobriety thing,” she said.Now that Isabella is home with her in Cypress Hills, Brooklyn, Ms. Williams plans to spend time with her daughter, watching movies, drawing and singing together. “Ring Around the Rosie” is a particular hit. The bonding moments put Ms. Williams’s past in stark contrast.AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael Gold[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Between 2012 and 2018, 14 states and Washington, D.C., passed laws prohibiting “conversion therapy” for minors. Deep-blue New York was not among them.That finally changed this month when the State Legislature voted overwhelmingly to bar mental health professionals from working to change a minor’s sexual orientation or gender identity.As jurisdictions across the country began solidifying protections for the gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender communities, conversion therapy became part of the public discourse. In 2016, L.G.B.T. groups denounced the Republican Party for adopting a platform that seemed to lend support to the technique, which had long been discredited by the medical establishment.Vice President Mike Pence has been particularly dogged by criticism; the groups say Mr. Pence had previously been in favor of conversion therapy, a stance that he has denied.New York lawmakers had been proposing bills addressing conversion therapy since 2003. The measures languished until this month, when Democrats took control of the Legislature for the first time in a decade.The Legislature this month also passed the Gender Expression Non-Discrimination Act, or Genda, which would add gender identity as a protected class under New York’s discrimination and hate crimes laws.The bills were the first pieces of L.G.B.T.-specific legislation to pass the Senate since lawmakers voted to legalize same-sex marriage in 2011, State Senator Brad Hoylman, a Manhattan Democrat, said.“It was a quantum leap forward,” said Mr. Hoylman, who is the only out gay lawmaker in the Senate and who sponsored both bills. “I hope we can build on that.”Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has said he would sign both bills.“So-called L.G.B.T.Q. conversion therapy is a fraudulent practice that has done untold harm to too many young people,” Mr. Cuomo said in a statement.Conversion therapy, also called reparative therapy, has been widely denounced by medical professional organizations as traumatizing and harmful to minors. The American Academy of Pediatrics warned against it as early as 1993, saying it reinforced anxiety and shame. In 2009, the American Psychological Association condemned the practice in a report, saying that conversion therapy was predicated on the idea that homosexuality was a mental disorder.But despite the consensus that conversion therapy was unsound, it has remained fairly common, said Mathew Shurka, who underwent conversion therapy and works as an activist fighting against it.An estimated 698,000 L.G.B.T. adults in the United States have received conversion therapy, according to research by the Williams Institute at the U.C.L.A. School of Law, which studies L.G.B.T. issues. About half of them underwent conversion therapy as teenagers.Mr. Shurka was among them. He was 16 years old in 2004 when his father took him to a therapist who said he could make gay people straight, and he spent five years undergoing the purported treatment.Conversion therapy assumes that everyone is a heterosexual, Mr. Shurka said, and that same-sex attraction is caused by childhood trauma. The therapists say, “If you can just heal that trauma and understand what your role is as a male or female, you will naturally start to be attracted to the opposite sex,” he said.Mr. Shurka said he was told to separate from his mother and sister for three years to make sure that he did not look at women as his peers.Mr. Shurka worked with Mr. Hoylman and Assemblywoman Deborah J. Glick, a Manhattan Democrat who was New York’s first out gay legislator, when they introduced a bill to ban conversion therapy in the state in 2013.At that time, only California had passed a similar law, a year earlier. Months after the New York bill was introduced, New Jersey passed its own legislation barring conversion therapy.Yet New York stood still. The bill cleared the Democrat-led Assembly, but was blocked in the Republican-controlled Senate, where it never received a floor vote.For years, Mr. Hoylman kept reintroducing the bill. Each time, his efforts met the same result, while laws were passed in traditional liberal bastions, like Connecticut and Washington, D.C., and also approved through a bipartisan effort in New Hampshire. There, a Republican legislator sponsored the bill and a Republican governor signed it into law.“New York most certainly lagged behind,” Mr. Hoylman said.Over the years, Mr. Shurka and other advocates worked to educate state lawmakers about conversion therapy. Many of the people he spoke with did not believe conversion therapy was a modern problem, Mr. Shurka said. He blamed that lack of awareness on the stigma associated with the practice.“If your parents are putting you into it, they’re not telling their neighbors or friends,” Mr. Shurka said. “It’s not really talked about, and even for the person that’s in it.”Mr. Cuomo addressed the issue in 2016, when he prevented conversion therapy from being covered by insurers. A number of cities and counties in the state also passed bans, including New York City in 2017.This year, Mr. Hoylman’s bill was passed as part of a slate of policies that Democrats are seeking to enact now that they have full control of the Legislature after winning a majority in the Senate in November.The conversion therapy ban received strong bipartisan support, passing the Assembly 134 to 3 and the Senate 57 to 4.Mr. Shurka, who was in Albany for the Senate vote, said he was “shocked” by the result, which he said was pivotal.“For me, conversion therapy is the source of all L.G.B.T. rights,” he said. “It’s still that question of ‘Can someone change?’”Follow Michael Gold on Twitter: @migold.AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Lawrence K. Altman, M.D.WASHINGTON — Despite telling his doctor that he would like to lose 10 to 15 pounds, President Trump gained weight over the past year and is now officially obese.The president was weighed last week as part of his annual physical, and is now at 243 pounds, according to Dr. Sean Conley, the White House physician, a four pound gain since last year’s physical. At 6 feet 3 inches tall, Mr. Trump now has a body mass index of 30.4. Anything over 30 is considered obese.Dr. Conley, a Navy commander and the director of the White House medical unit, reported Mr. Trump’s weight without comment in a memorandum describing some results of the physical that was released by the White House. After a team of 11 specialists examined the president for four hours at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center, Dr. Conley said the president was in “very good health” and was expected to remain so “for the remainder of his presidency and beyond,” but did not release any other details.Mr. Trump, 72, the oldest president to ever take office, is known for his love of fast food and pride in not exercising, and his weight has been a moving target in recent years. In 2016, Mr. Trump’s former personal physician, Dr. Harold N. Bornstein, said he weighed 236 pounds. In 2015, Dr. Bornstein said he had lost at least 10 pounds over the previous year. But Dr. Bornstein did not report the specific weights at either point in time.Obesity is a major public health problem in the United States, where 93.3 million adults were obese in 2015-2016, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Obese individuals are at increased risk of dying from all causes of disease. Among the particular risks are diabetes, stroke, some cancers, clinical depression and other mental disorders.After last year’s exam, Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, the White House physician at the time, recommended that the president improve his diet by cutting back on hamburgers and beefing up on salads. “He would like to lose 10 to 15 pounds,” Dr. Jackson said then. “We talked about diet and exercise a lot. He’s more enthusiastic about the diet part than the exercise part, but we’re going to do both.”But Mr. Trump apparently did not follow the plan.Mr. Trump is not required to release any of his medical findings. But in recent decades, it has become a custom for presidents to authorize their doctors to provide detailed findings after such checkups. But the memorandum released six days after Mr. Trump’s exam was sparse. It did not detail the physical examinations that Mr. Trump underwent, or their results, as the White House physician did for President Barack Obama.The most striking aspect of the release was Mr. Trump’s weight. But Dr. Conley also said the president’s rosuvastatin dose, used to help control his cholesterol, has increased to 40 milligrams per day, up from 10.The president’s cholesterol was elevated, at 196, with an LDL measurement of 122 and an HDL level of 58. It was not clear when Mr. Trump’s doctors raised the dose, and when the cholesterol measurements were made, as a cholesterol test can be administered from the White House at any time.Last year, Mr. Trump’s LDL measurement was 143, and his doctor said he hoped a higher dose of Crestor would help him lower his LDL to under 120 over the next 12 months, a goal Mr. Trump did not meet even though his LDL levels moved in the right direction.The memo from Dr. Conley also said Mr. Trump was never under sedation or anesthesia during his checkup. It was not clear whether he either did not have a colonoscopy, which the White House had said he was due for in the coming year, or had a virtual colonoscopy, which can be conducted without anesthesia. In 2010, Mr. Obama underwent a virtual colonoscopy.Dr. Conley also said physical exams did not show any changes in the condition of Mr. Trump’s eyes, ears, nose, mouth, teeth, gums, heart, lungs, skin and gastrointestinal and neurological systems.Last year, when many of Mr. Trump’s critics had raised questions about his erratic behavior and mental state, the president asked Dr. Jackson for a cognitive test designed to screen for neurological impairment. He received a perfect score on that test, known as the Montreal Cognitive Assessment test, and the military doctor said there was no evidence that Mr. Trump suffered from any mental issues that would prevent him from performing his duties in office.The White House did not say whether the doctors repeated the Montreal test this year or performed similar ones. The White House also did not list what kinds of specialists examined Mr. Trump, what their areas of expertise are or if any of them were psychologists or psychiatrists.This year’s report on Mr. Trump’s condition had none of the theatrics that surrounded the release last year of Mr. Trump’s medical results when Dr. Jackson delivered a report at the podium in the White House briefing room, and took questions from reporters.“It’s called genetics,” Dr. Jackson said of the president’s good health. “I told the president if he had eaten healthier over the last 20 years, he might live to be 200.”Dr. Jackson’s performance was widely mocked for mirroring the hyperbolic language of the president he had examined, and for whom he appeared to be performing. But the fawning language appeared to appeal to at least an audience of one: Mr. Trump soon nominated Dr. Jackson to serve as secretary of veterans affairs.Dr. Jackson later withdrew his nomination after allegations of misconduct during his time as a physician in the White House. He still serves in the White House medical unit, but no longer in the position of the president’s physician.AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard C. PaddockBANGKOK — Thailand’s military junta is targeting a popular new pro-democracy party, accusing its leader of causing disorder that could lead to rebellion even as the seat allotments from last week’s parliamentary elections are being calculated.The billionaire leader of the Future Forward Party, Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit, was ordered on Wednesday to submit to the police for questioning in the case, which initially opened four years ago. He is accused of helping protesters flee arrest at a demonstration and faces up to seven years in prison.Mr. Thanathorn, who has built a large following partly through social media, posted the summons on Facebook and Twitter and wrote: “When the dark power won’t leave Future Forward alone.”“It’s clear now that the old-school political game won’t end after the election, but is only getting more intense, because they’re afraid of Future Forward,” he added. The party came in third in the balloting last week.The summons came Wednesday, a day after Thailand’s Army chief, Gen. Apirat Kongsompong, warned that the military would not tolerate threats against the country’s constitutional monarchy, in which the king is deemed head of state. Some considered his comments to be directed at Future Forward.“The army does the army’s duty, which is to protect, maintain, and defend the institutions of nation, religion, and monarchy,” the general told reporters.The interventions are the latest indications that the Thai junta is clinging to every advantage it can to gain an edge through the election. And the junta gave itself many of those advantages, as it put in place a new Constitution and electoral system after seizing power in a 2014 coup.Those changes gave the generals sweeping influence over Parliament itself, and over an Election Commission with great power to bar candidates and target lawmakers for ejection.The first electoral test for that new system came last week when Thailand finally held its long-delayed parliamentary election. And though the results are not yet official, it is already clear that the regime’s system is doing what it was designed to do: splintering the pro-democracy opposition, and entrenching the junta’s authority.“Thailand is headed to a military-guided, authoritarian system,” said Purawich Watanasukh, a research fellow at the independent King Prajadhipok’s Institute in Bangkok.According to the Election Commission’s preliminary results, the leading vote-getter was the military-backed party, Palang Pracharat, with about 24 percent. But that is less than half the popular vote received by the next three parties, which all campaigned for a return to democracy. In total, they received 51 percent of the vote, according to the early count.“Palang Pracharat ran on the idea of maintaining stability and continuity and the others ran on the basis of restoring democracy,” said Verapat Pariyawong, a visiting scholar at SOAS School of Law at the University of London. “The majority of Thai voters went for the idea that we need to restore democracy.”In parliament’s lower house, the House of Representatives, the likely result will be a sharply divided body and a weak coalition government. The commission has until May 9 to announce the official results.Calling itself the National Council for Peace and Order after it seized power, the junta drafted a new Constitution, the country’s 20th, which was ratified in a 2016 referendum. For that vote, the junta blocked opponents from campaigning and barred election monitors.Voters approved a separate measure allowing the military to appoint all 250 members of the Senate, who will join the 500-member lower house in selecting the next prime minister.Critics contend that the entire system is rigged in the military’s favor. That is partly through its influence over the powerful Election Commission, which came under fire for numerous irregularities during the balloting, delays in announcing the vote count, and an unexpected surge in the number of votes reported.At one news conference, the commission’s president, Ittiporn Boonpracong, told reporters that he could not work out the party list percentages because he did not have a calculator with him.At another, the commission released 208 pages of election data and told reporters to figure out the seat allocations themselves.Initial delays prompted the United States State Department to call for transparency.“We stand with the Thai people in calling for the expeditious announcement of voting results and a fair and transparent investigation of any reported irregularities,” a State Department spokesman, Robert Palladino, said last week.More than 5.6 percent of the votes cast were invalidated, including some for not being marked properly. If they had gone to a single party, that party would have finished sixth over all.Another 24 percent of the votes were spread among more than 70 other parties, fulfilling the military’s goal of fragmenting the vote.In the 2011 parliamentary election, more than three quarters of the vote went to two parties, Pheu Thai and the Democrat Party, which finished second and fourth in last week’s election. (An election held in 2014 was ruled invalid by the Constitutional Court.)The military has another edge, as well: the timing of the coronation of a new monarch, King Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun, expected May 4 to 6.That is only a few days before the election results become official. And the effect, in a country with strict laws against criticizing the monarchy, has been to make pro-democracy leaders reluctant to stage any major protests before the coronation.Dozens of protesters did gather on Sunday afternoon to protest the Election Commission’s handling of the vote and what they termed cheating.Still, the military may have to use even more tactics to fully secure a win.Under complex rules that do not necessarily reward winning the most votes, Palang Pracharat will hold about 118 seats in the House while the opposition Pheu Thai Party is likely to get about 137, according to unofficial projections.The opposition coalition, including Pheu Thai and Future Forward, claimed on Wednesday that it would have a razor-thin majority in the House.But under the country’s new Constitution, and an accompanying body of law that followed it, the deck is stacked against them.Since the next prime minister will be chosen by a combined vote of the House and the military-appointed Senate, it is likely that the junta leader and current prime minister, Prayuth Chan-ocha, will be named to head the new government.And whatever the outcome of the vote, the Constitution gives the military the authority to shape Parliament’s membership in the months and years ahead.The Election Commission can seek to remove members for election misconduct and call new elections in those seats, in some circumstances barring the previous winner from running again. More than 180 such complaints have been filed.“They have the whole year to disqualify people,” said Siripan Nogsuan Sawasdee, a professor of political science at Chulalongkorn University in Bangkok. “So the number can be changed the whole time.”In addition, Mr. Verapat, the University of London visiting scholar, pointed out that the Constitution gives military-appointed officials the power to remove members of Parliament any time for violating broad “ethical standards.”The standards include adhering to democracy with the king as the head of state, pursuing the public interest over private interests and conducting oneself in an honest manner.Government officials and courts will have wide discretion under the law to decide what violates the ethics standards, he said.“Even if the so-called democratic coalition was able to form a government,” Mr. Verapat added, “they would face a tough road ahead.”AdvertisementSupported byReviewThe show at the Metropolitan Pavilion is a big, expansive display of mostly smallish things but with a good share of stop-and-stare surprises.By Holland CotterOutsider Art, which once had fringe cachet, is now pretty well inside the mainstream fold. As a genre, it has developed branding strategies, a collecting base and a marketable canon of (mostly male) stars, with Henry Darger, Martín Ramírez and Bill Traylor leading the list. All three are present, like tutelary deities, in the 27th New York City edition of the show, at the Metropolitan Pavilion.With 66 exhibitors from seven countries, it’s an expansive display of mostly smallish, textured, densely detailed things — modest-size figurative paintings and drawings dominate — but with a good share of stop-and-stare surprises. One comes with a group of large-scale architectural models by the Philadelphia artist Kambel Smith. Born in 1986 and diagnosed with autism as a child,  Mr. Smith began painting, and when his family could no longer afford to buy canvas and oil paint, he turned to constructing models from cardboard, with the goal of creating what amount to sculptural portraits of historical Philadelphia buildings.At the fair, the booth of his dealer, Chris Byrne, from Dallas, is all but filled by a model of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, replete with pediment murals. The city’s Betsy Ross House hugs the wall nearby. According to the gallery, Mr. Smith’s work now takes up more than half of his family’s home. And in the house-crowding category, there’s the sculpture of another artist making his solo debut, John Foxell (1944-2016), represented by the East Hampton, N.Y., dealer Norman Brosterman. Mr. Foxell, who lived alone in a snug 1840s house on Staten Island, had post-traumatic stress disorder after witnessing the events of Sept. 11. To relieve anxiety, he used art as therapy and filled his home with tabletop assemblages made from stuff he found in flea markets and on the street — toys, buttons, acorns, bones. The results are funny, erotic and macabre. He’s a consumerist Joseph Cornell.Busy is a word that might be applied to this work. And there’s a good amount of busyness in the fair, which perhaps supports the art-making-as-compulsion narrative by which outsiderness is often defined. The term embraces artists with psychiatric disabilities, like Darger and Ramírez, as well as those like Traylor, who had no conventional art training. The American art dealer Phyllis Kind, an original exhibitor at the fair, spoke of the artists she championed as ones who made art “not because they might want to but instead because they had to.” (One might, of course, say the same of workaholics like Michelangelo and Picasso.)Ms. Kind, who is honored with a tribute exhibition organized by the critic Edward M. Goméz, certainly did not associate compulsion with lack of aesthetic control. Control is evident at every turn. It’s pinpoint fine in 1940s crayon images of fantasy landscapes by the German artist identified only as Angelika (at Henry Boxer, Surrey, England). It’s coolly stripped-down in drawings of what look like Bauhaus temples by the Senegalese-born street artist Ousseynou Gassama, known as Hassan (at Ricco/Maresca, New York). And control feels explosive in paintings mixing antique Japanese themes and contemporary cartoons by Yuichiro Ukai (at Yukiko Koide Presents, Tokyo).After time spent with Mr. Ukai’s detonations of detail, you may be in need of retinal relief, and you’ll find it in the show’s scattering of abstract art: in biomorphic pastels by Julian Martin (at Fleisher/Ollman, Philadelphia); in tantric paintings from western India (Galerie Hervé Perdriolle, Paris); and in sewn canvases by Sidival Fila (James Barron Art, Kent, Conn.)With Mr. Fila’s work, outsider shades into the less dramatic category of self-taught work. A Brazilian-born Franciscan monk living in Rome for decades, he began to make art only in 2006. Yet his monochromatic paintings, with their meticulous stitching, have gained a following and earned him some money, most of which goes to paying for the education of children in Africa and elsewhere.Mr. Fila is, in a sense, an outsider by choice, as are — but again, only in a sense — the artists in a special exhibition, “Good Kids: Underground Comics From China,” assembled by Brett Littman, director of the Noguchi Museum, and Yi Zhou, partner and curator of C5 Art Gallery in Beijing.The saga of these “kids” is complicated. It began when a small group of artists, disaffected by mainstream culture, began sharing images online. The group grew in size to become a self-exhibiting and self-publishing enterprise. What didn’t change was its underground status. Participants still operate under government radar. The fact that much of the work deals with officially frowned-on subject matter, including homosexuality, keeps the project marginal even within the contemporary Chinese art world.By contrast, certain other political art in the show delivers an anti-authoritarian message in plain sight; indeed, in the spotlight. Such is the case with a recent series of satirical Trump cartoons by the actor Jim Carrey, brought by Maccarone Gallery of Los Angeles. The drawings have bite, but their over-the-top insult style is now the common language of American culture. To speak it is to take few risks. Mr. Carrey qualifies as an outsider artist by being self-taught. Yet because, he is also a celebrity insider, he has been awarded the kind of critical enthusiasm and (I’m guessing) collecting attention that most of the artists in this fair could only dream of. Maybe true Outsider art, which this is not, really is still far outside after all.Outsider Art Fair Through Sunday. Metropolitan Pavilion, 125 West 18th Street, outsiderartfair.com.AdvertisementSupported byA psychiatrist wonders if there’s a way to use drugs to speed up the painful work of therapy.By Richard A. FriedmanDr. Friedman is a psychiatrist and a contributing opinion writer.Feeling anxious or depressed and want to get better? You have to really work at it and suffer through years of therapy and sometimes try lots of drugs. No pain, no gain, or so we’ve been told.That would make a stoic happy, but as a psychiatrist — and an admittedly impatient one — I know that just because something feels bad doesn’t necessarily mean that it’s good for you. I’m pretty confident that people who are suffering prefer relief sooner rather than later and that if there was any way to make the treatment — be it psychotherapy or medication — more effective, they would gladly try it.So I am cautiously optimistic that on Tuesday, the Food and Drug Administration approved esketamine, a nasal version of the drug ketamine, which appears to relieve depressive symptoms far faster than other antidepressants. There are risks: The drug is potentially addictive, heavy use can impair cognition, and it could induce a psychotic reaction in some patients. But if prescribed judiciously, esketamine should be a boon to the 25 percent of people with depression who fail to respond to current drugs. I have been wondering if esketamine could be used for another purpose, too: to strengthen the effects of therapy. This is because it targets the neurotransmitter glutamate, which plays an important role in learning and memory. There is intriguing neuroscience research that suggests that it may be possible to boost the efficacy of psychotherapy with drugs that share some of ketamine’s effects, somewhat the way athletes can enhance their performance with steroids.A while back, I saw a young woman who had been mugged on her way home from work. She was pushed to the ground by an unseen assailant who stole her wallet and fled, leaving her shaken up but otherwise unharmed.In the next few weeks, she become increasingly anxious when walking alone at night and had intrusive flashbacks of the assault during the day. Normally, you would lose this fear after being back on the street a few times and seeing that nothing traumatic happens. But she’d developed classic post-traumatic stress disorder, in which a previously safe situation provokes a persistent, and visceral, sense of danger.She began exposure therapy with one of my colleagues in which she gradually confronted the situation she feared — a dark city street — alongside her therapist, who assured her that nothing terrible would happen. Like many people, she found this treatment upsetting and emotionally draining, but she stuck it out and eventually recovered.What if we could use a drug to speed up a difficult treatment like that and make it more effective? The psychologist JoAnn Difede and her colleagues at Weill Cornell Medical College, where I also work, addressed that question with a study in 2013 of 25 patients who developed PTSD after Sept. 11. They randomly assigned the participants to virtual reality exposure (12 weekly sessions of simulated attacks on the World Trade Center combined with patients’ recounting their traumatic experience in vivid detail) with either the drug d-cycloserine or a placebo. Subjects who received exposure along with d-cycloserine showed faster and greater improvement in their PTSD and depressive symptoms, and the benefits persisted after six months of follow-up.Of course, this was a very small study. A 2017 meta-analysis of 21 studies found that d-cycloserine was superior to a placebo in boosting the short-term effect of exposure-based therapy, though any long-term effects were less consistent. Studies of the drug in rodents have also found that it helps the animals recover from the fear of shocks much faster than a placebo.How might this work? D-cycloserine is an antibiotic that, like ketamine, increases the activity of glutamate in key brain regions, which promotes connections between neurons. It seems to amp up the molecular machinery of learning. And psychotherapy is all about learning — to overcome fear and to better handle stress, among other lessons. For decades, psychoanalysts were against medicating anxiety at all, because they believed it would interfere with the therapeutic process. Fortunately, those days are largely over. Many are now comfortable giving patients anti-anxiety benzodiazepines like Klonopin if they are having a hard time grappling with issues that arise in therapy. Treating excessive anxiety can allow patients to better face their pain and fears.This research suggests we could be doing more to use drugs to turbocharge therapy.The timing of drug and treatment is probably crucial. In one study, rats were trained to fear a particular context (cage) or a cue (white light) by pairing them with a mild shock. The animals then underwent fear-extinction therapy, either in one long session after receiving a benzodiazepine or in two sessions with the drug given in between. The latter group were more successful at getting over their fear, which suggests that some exposure therapy must precede the medication.But maybe, with the help of the right drug, just a little therapy could go a long way.One small study randomized 20 subjects with PTSD to receive just two sessions of therapy in addition to either MDMA (the party drug Ecstasy) or a placebo. Those who got MDMA had fewer PTSD symptoms and were more open and less “neurotic” than those who took a placebo at a two-month follow-up.It’s not that surprising. MDMA is known to promote openness and lack of defensiveness, both of which might be conducive to attaining insights. Could that wisdom be as enduring as the kind acquired during months of therapy? It’s possible. After all, therapy and prescription drugs like antidepressants change the brain in surprisingly similar ways.It was Aeschylus, the ancient Greek tragedian, who wrote that it was God’s law that “he who learns must suffer.” Even in our sleep, he wrote, “pain that cannot forget, falls drop by drop upon the heart, and in our own despair, against our will, comes wisdom to us by the awful grace of God.”I hate to argue with Aeschylus, but I see more and more evidence that there’s no need to suffer quite so much on the way to self-improvement.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.AdvertisementSupported byAmerican governance shuts down.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistAn Ernest Hemingway character once said that he went bankrupt two ways: “Gradually and then suddenly.” That may also be how Donald Trump’s administration finally melts down.We are now two years into the Trump presidency. Think back to how unnerving it was, a little more than 100 weeks ago, when Sean Spicer gave his fuming Baghdad Bob press conference insisting, falsely, that the crowd at Trump’s swearing-in was “the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period!” Americans were still capable of being surprised, in those innocent days, at being asked to put the lies of their new president above the clear evidence of their senses.Imagine if you’d known then how far we’d fall. The government has been partly shut down for 24 days and counting. Around 800,000 federal employees are missing their paychecks. Thousands of low-income people — largely seniors and the disabled — may soon face eviction due to lack of funds at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Food and airplanes are both going without routine inspections.[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]There’s no permanent attorney general or secretary of defense. (The acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, is alleged to have helped a company currently under federal investigation for fraud intimidate its critics.) The national security adviser is John Bolton, and he seems to be trying to provoke a war with Iran. An Associated Press story contains this deadpan line: “White House aides expressed regret that the president did not more clearly and forcefully deny being a Russian agent when asked by the usually friendly Fox News host.”To be clear, we’re very far from a worst-case scenario version of a Trump administration. Last year the president sent nearly 6,000 active-duty American troops to the border based on racist propaganda about a migrant caravan, but there haven’t been tanks in the streets. The administration winks at foreign governments who kill journalists, but its own threats against the media are mostly empty. I feared, at the beginning of this administration, that Trump would try to exploit American intelligence capabilities against his personal enemies, but instead he gets his intelligence from Fox News. The fact that so many high-level Trump associates have pleaded guilty to crimes is a sign of his corruption, but it also shows he hasn’t corrupted our entire system.Trump has turned out to be the Norma Desmond of authoritarians, a senescent has-been whose delusions are propped up by obsequious retainers. From his fantasy world in the White House, he barks dictatorial and often illegal orders, floats conspiracy theories, tweets insults and lies unceasingly. But much of the time he’s not fully in charge. He has the instincts of a fascist but lacks both the discipline and the loyal lieutenants he’d need to create true autocracy.That doesn’t mean, however, that the country isn’t coming undone. Trump’s bumbling incoherence, coupled with his declining political fortunes since the midterms, makes him seem less frightening than he once did. But, two years in, the jaded weariness many of us have developed might obscure how bad things are. We’re living through an unprecedented breakdown in America’s ability to function like a normal country. The shutdown throws our crisis into high relief. For the first two years, Trump destroyed American norms, standards and conventions. Now he’s cavalierly destroying American lives.As of this writing, the president has rejected every way out of the government shutdown save full capitulation by House Democrats. Last week he stormed out of a meeting with the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer. On Monday he rejected a proposal by his Senate ally Lindsey Graham to open the government for three weeks while the two sides negotiate immigration legislation. For the moment he's backed off from the idea of declaring a national emergency, perhaps because many conservatives are afraid of the precedent it will set. Senate Republicans could end the shutdown tomorrow, but the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, refuses to stand up to Trump.The shutdown, then, is set to continue. Air travel, already a mess, will grow more chaotic as more unpaid T.S.A. agents call in sick or quit. Food stamp benefits — which pay for about 10 percent of American groceries — are being paid through February, but no one knows what happens if the shutdown drags into March.F.B.I. agents aren’t being paid and the agency is being forced to triage investigations. Most immigration courts are closed, and according to The New York Times, court dates that fall during the shutdown could be delayed as long as four years. NBC reported on a federal worker rationing her insulin because she’s not being paid. Native Americans have seen their access to health care curtailed. HuffPost described domestic violence shelters cutting services and planning layoffs.How long can this continue? One lesson of the Trump era is that things can feel unsustainable yet drag on interminably. But for two years, most Americans who don’t live in Puerto Rico have been protected from the material consequences of White House disorder. That’s changing. Maybe Americans can tolerate uncertainty about whether the president is a traitor. Uncertainty about their next flight, next paycheck or next meal is another story.AdvertisementSupported byThe New Health CareCannabis has downsides, but speculation and fear should be replaced with the best evidence available. By Aaron E. CarrollAre we underestimating the harms of legalizing marijuana?Those who hold this view have been in the news recently, saying that research shows we are moving too far too fast without understanding the damage.America is in the midst of a sea change in policies on pot, and we should all be a bit nervous about unintended consequences. Vigilance is required. But it should be reasoned and thoughtful. To tackle recent claims, we should use the best methods and evidence as a starting point. Crime has gone up in Colorado and Washington since those states legalized marijuana. It’s reasonable to wonder about the connection, but it’s also reasonable to be skeptical about causation.The best method to investigate this may be synthetic controls. Researchers can use a weighted combination of similar groups (states that are like Colorado and Washington in a number of ways) to create a model of how those states might have been expected to perform with respect to crime without any changes in marijuana laws. Benjamin Hansen, a professor of economics at the University of Oregon, used this methodology to create a comparison group that most closely resembled the homicide trends and levels from 2000-12.“I picked those years because they were after the tremendous crime drop in the early ’90s and most predictive of crime today,” he said. “I ended in 2012 because that’s when Colorado and Washington voted to legalize marijuana.” This model showed that we might have predicted more of an increase in Colorado or Washington just based on trends seen in comparable states, even without legalization. When he compared the two states with the synthetic control, Colorado and Washington actually had lower rates after legalization than you’d expect given trends. This is not evidence that legalization lowers crime rates. But it does suggest that we shouldn’t conclude that it increases them. A number of other studies agree.A potential misperception involves automobile crashes. Drunken drivers are measurably impaired when their blood alcohol level is above a certain level. We can prove this in randomized controlled trials.The tests we use for measuring the presence of THC, though, do not measure the level of impairment. They measure whether someone has used marijuana recently. If we legalize the drug, and more people use it, more people will register its recent use even when they are not impaired. So it should be expected that more people involved in car crashes will test positive even if no one is driving while high.Using a synthetic control approach, Mr. Hansen and colleagues showed that marijuana-related fatality rates did not increase more after legalization than what you would expect from trends and other states.Dr. Ziva Cooper is one of the authors of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine’s comprehensive report on cannabis.She says some have misinterpreted the report to state that the report’s committee concluded that cannabis causes schizophrenia. It did not. “This was stated as an association, not causation,” she said. “We do not yet have the supporting evidence to state the direction of this association.”Dr. Cooper, research director of the U.C.L.A. Cannabis Research Initiative, went further: “We as a committee also concluded that a history of cannabis use is associated with better cognitive outcomes in people diagnosed with psychotic disorders. The blatant omission of this conclusion exemplifies the one-sided nature of some articles. Nonetheless, the strong association between cannabis use and schizophrenia means that people with predisposing risk factors for schizophrenia should most certainly abstain from using cannabis.”No one should be under the impression that marijuana is harmless. The potential downsides are well known, and I’ve covered them. Nor should anyone be irrationally exuberant about its upsides. It’s not a wonder drug, and the proven benefits are also minimal (as I discussed here).We should be honest about what we do and don’t know. We need more research. It’s true that much of the literature around marijuana focuses on the negative, but that’s “largely due to funding priorities over the last several decades,” Dr. Cooper said. In the report she worked on, only 40 of the 450 pages were about the therapeutic effects of cannabis and cannabinoids, she said, while the other sections were related largely to the negative health outcomes.She added, “With increased awareness of the clinical potential of cannabinoids, research priorities have shifted to include studying this area” in the last few years. It’s perfectly natural to be concerned that as cannabis products become legal in more states, they will affect more people.Many of the experts who have done the work highlighted here are still nervous about how we might proceed. No one thinks that children or adolescents should use marijuana. There’s little regulation right now, and there’s potential for the drug to be mixed with other substances to increase its addictive properties. Advertising will probably make claims that will be out of line with reality.We should be clear about what we’re talking about here, though. Adults will make decisions on how to use it just as they do with similar products like alcohol and tobacco. Both are more dangerous than marijuana, and it’s not even close.AdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinThe American Psychological Association has released several guides for psychologists who work with people belonging to certain groups — members of ethnic and linguistic minorities, for example, or women and girls.It did not have a guide for working with males, in part because they were historically considered the norm. But in August, the A.P.A. approved its first set of official guidelines for working with boys and men.The guidelines, 10 in all, posit that males who are socialized to conform to “traditional masculinity ideology” are often negatively affected in terms of mental and physical health.They acknowledge that ideas about masculinity vary across cultures, age groups and ethnicities. But they point to common themes like “anti-femininity, achievement, eschewal of the appearance of weakness, and adventure, risk, and violence.”The document was written in academic language — not built to go viral. But last week, an A.P.A. article about the guidelines, and then a tweet about that article, captured widespread attention. Negative comments flooded in on Twitter, as well as from conservative news outlets.“If men are struggling more the farther we move from those traditional norms, is the answer to continue denying and suppressing a boy’s essential nature?” David French, a senior writer for National Review, wrote in an article about the guidelines on Monday.“Traditional masculinity seems to be, in this report at least, conflated with being a pig, or a creep, or a Harvey Weinstein kind of person,” said Laura Ingraham on her Fox News show on Tuesday.Released in the wake of the #MeToo movement, the new set of guidelines seemed to reflect contemporary conversations about gender, bullying and harassment.But the guidance has been in the works since 2005. The A.P.A., the biggest organization of psychologists in the United States, approved guidelines for girls and women back in 2007, and for various other groups as defined by age, gender identification, ethnicity and sexuality.The primary purpose of the new guidelines, said Fredric Rabinowitz, one of the lead writers and a professor of psychology at the University of Redlands, was to help men and boys lead happy, healthy lives.“We see that men have higher suicide rates, men have more cardiovascular disease and men are lonelier as they get older,” he said. “We’re trying to help men by expanding their emotional repertoire, not trying to take away the strengths that men have.”And the document’s critics? “They’re taking a very binary perspective,” he said.Judy Y. Chu, who teaches about boys’ psychosocial development at Stanford University and is the author of “When Boys Become Boys,” was not involved in drafting the document but said it contained good insights into the needs of boys, who are often taught to avoid showing emotion.“All of us are born needing, and being able to develop, close personal relationships,” she said. “And those are essential to our health. So what does it mean that we socialize boys away from that inherent need?”The guidelines note that men sometimes avoid seeking help from others, including from psychologists, because it could make them look weak. And they note that even when men do seek help, psychologists sometimes err by diagnosing them in outward-looking ways — with substance abuse problems, for example — rather than with more internalized disorders like depression.The guidelines also cite research on health risks that are particular to men. They die sooner than women, in part because of poorer diets and more risky behaviors like smoking. They commit the vast majority of violent crimes in the United States and make up most of the reported victims, even though men have “greater socioeconomic advantages than women in every ethnic group.”The document acknowledges that the issues faced by men and boys can be compounded by other things, like race and income. For example, men in the United States go to jail more often than women, but men from minority ethnic groups are more likely to be incarcerated than white men, even when crime rates are the same.The guidelines add that men and boys have historically been considered a “normative referent” for psychology. In other words, men — especially white, heterosexual men — were overrepresented in Western studies, and their psychological needs and habits were considered more universal than they actually were.That flattened the field of psychology for everyone, said Matt Englar-Carlson, a professor of counseling at California State University at Fullerton who is also a lead writer of the new guidelines. “The feminist movement in the ’60s and ’70s began to encourage us to look at women as gendered beings, and the men’s movement in psychology really benefited from that,” he said.So it is no surprise that the A.P.A. guidelines for girls and women came out so much earlier, according to Dr. Chu.“When boys and men challenge patriarchal constructions of gender, they’re at risk of being perceived as failures, or as weak,” she said. But she added that when women, girls and nonbinary people criticized patriarchal systems that oppressed them, another idea began to take shape: Maybe those systems hurt men, too, even as they conferred certain privileges.“It brought to light issues that were being overlooked because there was a taboo against talking about it,” Dr. Chu said.The new guidelines will expire in about 10 years to make room for evolving ideas. Until then, the writers said, they are meant to serve as a resource for psychologists, whose practice should still be defined by the needs of the individual people they work with.“Psychologists are encouraged to see men as being impacted by culture, by race and by relationships, rather than just assuming that there is one sort of standardized set of behaviors,” Dr. Rabinowitz said. “We want people to be aware that men are complex beings.”AdvertisementSupported byBooks of The TimesBy Dwight GarnerThe virus first presents itself, as do most of the iniquities in American life, at a college party. A girl feels unwell, leaves early, and falls asleep. What she takes is no little beer nap. She doesn’t wake up.The virus spreads further, in Karen Thompson Walker’s second novel, “The Dreamers,” at another dorm-room party a few days later. Peach-flavored wine, that vector for the transmission of all things hazardous to the human spirit, is consumed. Tequila is passed in shared shot glasses.Now we have, to borrow the title of a novel by the medical-thriller writer Robin Cook, a contagion. More students fall asleep, like flowers fainting in their vases. None will be woke, politically or otherwise, for a long time, if ever.Before long, hundreds of citizens of the small fictional town of Santa Lora, Calif., have been infected by this sleeping sickness. Helicopters and Humvees and news crews, the secondary symptoms of any catastrophe, arrive. A cordon sanitaire is established.H. L. Mencken said that the ideal way to knock down any infectious disease is to “shoot instantly every person who comes down with it.” The president in this novel isn’t going to order that to happen, is he?Doctors determine that these sleepers are dreaming intensely, as if taking part in a communal screening of a Stanley Kubrick movie. If and when they awaken, what news will they have to bring?Walker has a gift for spooling out these kinds of details, as if we are kittens and she is trailing string. It’s a gift she displayed in her best-selling and well-reviewed first novel, “The Age of Miracles” (2012). That book, narrated by a sixth-grade girl, was about what would happen if the earth’s rotation slowed and parts of the planet crisped up and bubbled, like the surface of a crème brûlée.I can’t say that I read “The Age of Miracles,” but I did listen to the audio version with my family on a long summer drive. We listened to half of it, at any rate. We didn’t return to the book for the drive home. It seemed awfully tepid, even to my children, for a novel about the likely end of the world.What spell “The Age of Miracles” did manage to cast was predicated on two aspects. For one, as Irving Kristol put it, the “premonition of apocalypse springs eternal in the human breast.” Tell me a story in which the world is ending and CNN is covering it, and I will sit and listen for a while.For another, Walker’s first novel tapped neatly into our fears about the melting of the permafrost. Global warming has a role to play in “The Dreamers,” too. There is drought in California, and the book’s fictional college sits by a lake that’s evaporating. Sunken boats and other ancient items emerge from the receding waters.One of the sleepers, a doomsday prepper with two young daughters, wakes from his long sleep and relates this premonition: “The oceans moved a hundred miles inland. Los Angeles was swallowed.” By fire, by water: Like Kenny in “South Park,” L.A. always takes it in the end.Walker needs to keep the plots of her novels spinning, like plates on sticks. When the action slows, you realize what a limited and sentimental novelist she too often is.“The Dreamers” introduces us to many characters, nearly all of them exceedingly nice. There’s Ben and Annie, young academics new to town, and their baby. There’s Catherine, a specialist in psychiatric disorders.There’s Mei, a college freshman, who is lonely until the contagion gives her life purpose: along with another student, she devotes herself to assisting others. There are Libby and Sara, the pre-teenage daughters of the doomsday prepper. To keep themselves sane, these girls take in animals that wander the streets, some still wearing leashes, while their owners slumber.None of these characters says or does an interesting thing. Anarchic instincts and impure thoughts are kept to the barest minimum. Minds race in neutral. Reading this book’s bland dialogue is like watching players on center court use dead tennis balls.Pillow-soft banalities amass in drifts: “Not everything that breaks can be repaired”; “He has seen it already, how a child can unite them but also divide”; “There are certain circumstances under which the changing of a diaper is a sacred act”; “The only way to tell some stories is with the oldest, most familiar words: This here, this is the breaking of a heart.”Implausibilities pile up, too. What kind of small town lets its children go trick-or-treating after 12 people have caught a possibly deadly disease and local hotels have filled with contagious-disease experts?The most promising voice in this novel briefly emerges early on and then disappears. That voice belongs to a collective narrator not unlike the one Jeffrey Eugenides employed in “The Virgin Suicides.”Listening to that voice, you can almost hear the novel this might have been. In this scene, a boy named Caleb approaches the parents of a child who is ill:“The girls watch him shake hands with Kara’s father. They watch the way he holds his Cubs cap at his side while he speaks to Kara’s mother. And the girls — every one of them — long to smooth his hair, which is sticking up on one side and sweaty from where the cap has been.“The girls love him right then for talking to those parents. They love him for knowing what to do.”Walker knows what to do when she’s sinking her initial hooks into her readers. But she’s such a mild writer here that a true sense of menace is never allowed to bloom.Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter: @DwightGarner.AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie KarniWASHINGTON — President Trump declared on Tuesday morning that the husband of one of his top aides, Kellyanne Conway, was a “total loser.” On Wednesday morning, he doubled down, describing him as a “stone cold LOSER & husband from hell!”The husband in question, George T. Conway III, a prominent conservative lawyer, has been publicly critical of Mr. Trump for months. But in recent days he has escalated those attacks on Twitter by reigniting a conversation about the president’s mental health and saying Mr. Trump was a malignant narcissist who fits the profile for narcissistic personality disorder.Aides have been pressing Mr. Trump to simply ignore Mr. Conway, who in a phone interview on Tuesday said he viewed it as a “badge of honor” to be called a loser by someone he believes is unfit to hold the nation’s highest office, and said the president’s reaction only “proves the point I made yesterday.”Mr. Trump’s attack on Mr. Conway was not unusual for the language he used or for the medium through which he employed it. Over the past two years, Mr. Trump has proved that trivial, personal fights are not a distraction from the work he is doing in office, but a core feature of the image he wants to project.He called Rex W. Tillerson, his former secretary of state, “dumb as a rock” and “lazy as hell” after Mr. Tillerson criticized him in an interview last December for being undisciplined. He has taken the bait on almost every negative book written about him by a former staff member or a journalist, helping to elevate those tomes to the best-seller lists by declaring, via Twitter, that their authors are “a mess!” (Cliff Sims), a “lowlife” (Omarosa Manigault Newman) or an “idiot” (Bob Woodward).Returning fire with fire is part of the president’s modus operandi that aides around him have internalized. On Tuesday, Mr. Trump made clear that he would hit back at criticism, even if the critic was the spouse of one of his most loyal and longest-serving aides.Singling out Ms. Conway’s husband for presidential critique put the focus back on one of Washington’s most discussed marriages, even as Ms. Conway has tried to defuse the coverage of her husband by not commenting about him on the record because, she has told friends, of how it would affect her children.Mr. Trump appeared to be provoked by a tweet from his campaign manager, Brad Parscale, who wrote: “We all know that @realDonaldTrump turned down Mr. Kellyanne Conway for a job he desperately wanted. He barely worked @TheJusticeDept and was either fired/quit, didn’t want the scrutiny? Now he hurts his wife because he is jealous of her success. POTUS doesn’t even know him!”In fact, Mr. Conway withdrew his name from consideration for a top job at the Justice Department, running its civil division, before he ever started. And he has known Mr. Trump for decades, since he lived in Manhattan at Trump World Tower and declined to sit on the condo board, a spot that his wife took in his stead.In more recent history, Mr. Conway spent time with Mr. Trump on election night and at the wedding of the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, in June 2017, when Mr. Trump even commended him on turning down the job because it would have meant reporting to a “weak” leader, former Attorney General Jeff Sessions.Since Mr. Conway has become more vocal in his criticism of the president, Mr. Trump has referred to him repeatedly as “Mr. Kellyanne Conway” and claimed that in his diatribes against the president, he is simply trying to gain attention through the reflected glory of his wife. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter that Mr. Conway, “often referred to as Mr. Kellyanne Conway by those who know him, is VERY jealous of his wife’s success & angry that I, with her help, didn’t give him the job he so desperately wanted.”In an interview, Mr. Conway dismissed the idea that he was coasting off interest in his wife, and said that in the course of a long marriage, it is hard to separate who is responsible for whose fortune and fame.“The way we structured our lives before the campaign, it enabled her to build her business so she could become the campaign manager,” said Mr. Conway, who was previously a partner at the law firm Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz. “I helped in ways that enabled her to go off and be the campaign manager, and go off to the White House in the spring of 2017.”When the couple relocated its family to Washington from New Jersey, Mr. Conway gave up his partner status at the law firm, which does not have an office in the District of Columbia, and became “of counsel.”Mr. Conway said his motivation to publicly attack the president had been driven, at least in part, by feeling responsible for having played a small role in electing him, even if it was a tangential one of supportive spouse to the campaign manager.“There is a little bit of guilt there,” he said. “There’s some of that.”“He wasn’t my first choice,” Mr. Conway added. “He wasn’t her first choice. He was the last choice, in terms of the last person standing.” But Mr. Conway said his wife was now all-in for the president, much to his chagrin. “At this point, yes she is,” he said.Ms. Conway, who led a briefing on Mr. Trump’s initiative to stop opioid abuse on Tuesday morning and was set to personally brief the president on the administration’s achievements later in the day, declined to comment. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Ms. Conway said she did not share her husband’s view of the president’s mental health.Critics of Mr. Conway have noted that Mr. Trump revealed himself fully during the campaign, and has not changed. What has changed, in fact, is Mr. Conway’s view of him.“I had assumed and hoped that the gravity of the office would lead him to something greater,” Mr. Conway said. “That respect for the office, respect for history and the desire to leave a legacy would lead him to see that there is something beyond himself that he needs to achieve.” But Mr. Conway said that “on Day 1, his focus on the crowds, it was clear almost instantaneously that he’s not capable of it.”A lifelong Republican, Mr. Conway said he had not ruled out supporting a Democrat in 2020. “It depends on what they say,” he said, “but under no circumstances would I vote or support Trump.”Some followers of the White House’s personal dramas believe the Conways are playing both sides and looking for a big payday if Ms. Conway decides to leave the administration. But Mr. Conway said that a Mary Matalin-James Carville-style road show was an unlikely outcome.“I almost wish that were so,” he said. “This is just my way of expressing my views about something I find thoroughly maddening, which is the utter incompetence and mendacity of the president and the administration. I don’t end up getting in arguments at home about it.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Jason Horowitz and Elisabetta PovoledoCalled to the Vatican this week by Pope Francis to grapple with the crisis of child sexual abuse by clergy, nearly 200 leaders of the Roman Catholic Church sat for lectures on responsibility, accountability and transparency.But privately, they kept raising one issue not on the agenda: homosexuality.“We spoke of this,” Bishop Ricardo Ernesto Centellas Guzmán, the president of the Bolivian Bishops Conference, acknowledged on Thursday, the start of the extraordinary four-day meeting of bishops and other church leaders.Yet homosexuality is exactly the topic the conference organizers had hoped to avoid, pointing to ample research finding no connection between homosexuality and pedophilia.“The main issue is power,” said the Rev. Hans Zollner, a member of the Vatican’s child-protection commission and president of the Center for Child Protection of the Pontifical Gregorian University.Abuse “can be heterosexual or homosexual,” he added in an interview.Still, some Catholic bishops and conservative church media outlets have continued to blame the clerical child sexual abuse crisis on homosexuality.At the meeting, even as organizers and attendees pushed time and again to focus the discussions on pedophilia, the conflicting views about homosexuality within the church emerged as a distraction.Jean-Claude Hollerich, the archbishop of Luxembourg and Bishops’ Conferences of the European Union, moderated one of the meeting’s French-speaking discussion groups, which included leaders from some Francophone African nations.He said on Saturday that some bishops kept returning to homosexuality as a cause for abuse because “some people have some models in their head and they will always keep to it.”He said he and other bishops had sought to change their minds.“I tell them the prime minister of my country is homosexual,” he said. “And he would never abuse children.”Bishop Rochus Josef Tatamai, of Kavieng, president of the Bishops’ Conference of Papua New Guinea and the Solomon Islands, said on Saturday that in his English-language group, homosexuality was “alluded to” during discussions about the training of new priests.He suggested that “a desperate need for priests” in Europe and the United States had led seminaries to be lax in screening for candidates, some of whom turned out to be gay and abusers.Pope Francis has clearly shifted the discussion, if not church doctrine, to a more inclusive position on homosexuality.In 2013, he responded to questions about a supposed “gay lobby” in the Vatican by saying, “Who am I to judge?” — a remark that liberals celebrated and conservatives lamented.But while Catholic Church teachings state that people with homosexual tendencies “must be accepted with respect,” it also calls deep-seated homosexual inclinations and acts “intrinsically disordered.”Some conservative American prelates have sought to bring down Francis, seeing him as a protector of a gay subculture that is corrupting the clergy. Some have said his positions are eroding the church’s traditional values and planting the seeds of sexual abuse.Bishops from Africa, Asia and Latin America say that in failing to connect homosexuality to sexual abuse, the Vatican is ignoring that a vast majority of abuse is perpetrated by priests on male victims.This view has been echoed by Cardinal Gerhard Ludwig Müller, the church’s chief doctrinal watchdog until Pope Francis forced him out in 2017.The cardinal told the German magazine Der Spiegel this month that “far more than 80 percent of the victims of sexual abuse under 18 years of age were young men in puberty or post-puberty.’’And he argued that homosexuality should have been a central topic at the Vatican meeting this week.Cardinal Blase J. Cupich, the archbishop of Chicago, a favorite of Pope Francis and an organizer of the conference, said on Monday that it was not the case that “homosexual people are more prone to abuse children than straight people.”Asked about Cardinal Müller’s remarks, Cardinal Cupich told reporters “it’s important to admit the fact” that the predominance of underage victims are male. But he pointed to landmark studies in the United States and Australia showing that homosexuality in itself is not a cause of child sex abuse, and that access to children is a major factor.Each day at the meeting, reporters from conservative Catholic news outlets peppered the meeting’s organizers with questions about why they are dodging the topic of homosexuality.Their short answer: because it is irrelevant.Homosexuality has “nothing to do with the sexual abuse of minors,” Archbishop Charles Scicluna of Malta, the Vatican’s leading sex crimes investigator, said on Friday.Still, leading conservatives and traditionalists persisted in their arguments.Cardinal Raymond Burke of the United States and Cardinal Walter Brandmüller of Germany published an open letter to the presidents of bishops’ conferences representing various countries at the meeting, urging them to end their “conspiracy of silence” about the “plague of the homosexual agenda.”And Archbishop Carlo Maria Viganò, a former papal ambassador to the United States who accused the pope in August of protecting abusive gay clerics and called for his resignation, argued on Thursday that it was fitting that the meeting’s opening that day coincided with the feast of St. Peter Damian, an 11th-century monk who fought against “sins of sodomy” in the church.(Some church historians cautioned the archbishop that the saint was perhaps not the best model, as he had also denounced as immoral a Byzantine princess for introducing the practice of eating with a fork.)The conference coincided with what appeared to be the strategically timed release of “In the Closet of the Vatican,” a gossipy book by the French author Frédéric Martel, who characterized the Vatican as “one of the biggest gay communities in the world.”Those who attack Pope Francis “are very homophobic and for the large part live a double homosexual life,” Mr. Martel said Wednesday at a news conference in Rome, adding that as a gay man, he was able to determine who in the Vatican was gay.The book’s release was criticized by advocates for abuse victims.“Let’s be clear,” said Peter Saunders, a Briton who was forced off the Vatican’s child protection panel for criticizing it as toothless. “There is no link between people who are gay and people who abuse children. And I think that that is a lie that has to be hammered into the ground.”Estimates of how many priests are gay vary widely, but at a minimum, it is considered to be a significant percentage. One priest in Florida recently told The New York Times that a third of Catholic clergy members were gay, a third were straight, and a third remained a mystery — even to themselves.Some advocates for gay equality in the church said their message seemed to have gotten through to church leaders.Francis DeBernardo, executive director of New Ways Ministry in Maryland, a Catholic organization that supports gay men and lesbians, said in Rome that he was pleasantly surprised at the conference to find homosexuality “debunked as a cause” of abuse. He was hoping the Vatican “would give a more definitive, official statement from the pope to that effect.”But among the bishops in the room with Francis, the issue was not exactly settled.Entering the conference, Bishop Gonzalo de Villa y Vásquez of Guatemala said, “I think it can be a legitimate question whether or not there is a link between homosexuality and abuses.”AdvertisementSupported byAnders Breivik, the Norwegian terrorist, was diagnosed with a narcissistic personality disorder. Brenton Tarrant, who is accused of killing 50 worshipers in New Zealand, displays similar traits. By Asne SeierstadMs. Seierstad is the author of “One of Us: The Story of Anders Breivik and the Massacre in Norway.”Before he allegedly killed 50 Muslims praying at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, Brenton Tarrant, a 28-year-old Australian, reportedly posted a 74-page manifesto titled “The Great Replacement” online. In his tract, Mr. Tarrant wrote that he had only one true inspiration: the Norwegian political terrorist, Anders Breivik, who killed 77 people in 2011.I always thought that Mr. Breivik was at his most dangerous before we got to know who he was, when all we had was the photoshopped photographs he had posted online, the ones where he looked tall and well-built, blond and Aryan, posing with his gun. Mr. Breivik wanted fame. He wanted his 1,500-page cut-and-paste manifesto to be read widely, and he wanted a stage — his trial in Oslo. He called the bomb he set off outside the prime minister’s office in Oslo, and the massacre he carried out on the island of Utoya, his “book launch.” He told the Norwegian court he had estimated how many people he needed to kill to be read. He had figured a dozen, but ended up killing 77.Eight years after the massacre in Norway, the Norwegian political terrorist continues to be read by his desired audience: On far right forums on the internet the term “going Breivik” means a full commitment to the cause. While researching Mr. Breivik, which included sending him questions by letters and receiving answers from him in prison, I found a life full of shame, failures, abuse and rejections. A boy who never got the attention or care a child deserves; a rejected, uncool teenager; a man who in his late 20s moved in with his mother and mostly played video games. Isolated and angry, but with newfound friends on the dark web, he decided how he would be seen, heard, recognized and feared. He plotted his attack with an audience in mind.After my book about Mr. Breivik was published, I was often asked: Why do you publish his words and methods? I believed he was more dangerous as a symbol and less of an inspiration when seen with all his human failings. After his arrest he complained about lukewarm coffee and a lack of skin moisturizer in prison and whined that he did not have PlayStation 4. But his fellow travelers and followers ignored the critical texts produced by journalists and went directly to his manifesto, which continues resonating with new audiences. Christopher Hasson, a lieutenant in the United States Coast Guard and a self-described white nationalist who wanted to trigger a race war, was inspired by the Norwegian. Mr. Tarrant’s tract is a lighter version of Mr. Breivik’s manifesto, filled with references to memes and internet in-jokes, but similar in content, structure and tone. Both published their texts on the web right before their attacks. While the Norwegian, who had planned to stream his attack on YouTube but failed to do so, the authorities say Mr. Tarrant broadcast his terrorist act live on his Facebook page. The two men mix rage with self-pity. They see themselves as victims and use terms like “invasion,” “mass immigration” and “white genocide” to describe what they regard as the destruction of Europe and the white race. Both the Australian and the Norwegian barely mention their own homelands and focus on Europe and the United States. Mr. Tarrant sees the white population of Australia and New Zealand as Europeans.He writes how he decided on his “final push” after visiting France in 2017, where he saw how the European French had been “replaced” by “nonwhites.” Thus the title of his manifesto: “The Great Replacement.”Like the Norwegian, Mr. Tarrant is obsessed with birthrates and describes Europe as growing weaker and older. The Norwegian terrorist wanted to establish state-run birth clinics where blond, blue-eyed mothers would give birth to a dozen children each. Mr. Tarrant wants to restore what he calls “traditional family values.” Even though Mr. Tarrant’s manifesto is tailored to his dark web audience, sometimes with coded language, he tries to create a background of normalcy by quoting poems by Rudyard Kipling and referring to more mainstream right-wing figures. Likewise, Mr. Breivik frequently quoted people like Thomas Jefferson, as if he were the rightful heir to well-established ideas.Their main agenda is the same: to crush Muslim immigration. Mr. Tarrant wants to “deport those invaders already living on our soil.” Mr. Breivik suggested that every Muslim should be given the opportunity to convert to Christianity and take a Christian name. Those who do not obey should be deported or executed. All examples of Islamic art should be destroyed including all mosques; languages like Arabic, Persian, Urdu and Somali would be banned. One of the mosques targeted in New Zealand is built on the site where a church once stood. While the Christchurch gunman aimed straight at his targets, Mr. Breivik wanted to kill the so-called traitors, the members of the liberal elite and ruling Labour Party who had let Muslims into the country.Both men wrote about sacrificing themselves to a greater cause and envisioned that they would be released from prison by their followers after a “conservative revolution”swept through the world.Mr. Breivik was diagnosed with a narcissistic personality disorder by court psychiatrists; Mr. Tarrant displays similar traits. He wrote in his manifesto that he not only expects to be released but hopes to be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize. He should be free after 27 years, he wrote, like Nelson Mandela, after serving “for the same crime.”While parts of Mr. Breivik’s manifesto can be read as a manual for an act of terror, it is a call to action. Mr. Tarrant echoes that call, writing, “Whilst you wait for a signal, your people wait for you.” Both described themselves as fascists and used metaphors of war to justify the murders.Are we complicit in spreading the ideas of these fascists by writing about them? The answer is no. Radicalization happens first and foremost on the internet, where violent extremists meet and incite each other, and where they should be tracked down and monitored.We can’t allow ourselves to be ignorant. To fight terrorism, we need to research how individuals become terrorists. We need to analyze and expose fascist thoughts and violence. People like Mr. Breivik and Mr. Tarrant spread myths and conspiracies dressed up as facts. They use guns to be read. Their thoughts thrive in the darkness, tailored to an underground community. We need to expose the ideas and the lives of these white supremacists. Only then can we dissect them properly.Asne Seierstad is the author of “One of Us: The Story of Anders Breivik and the Massacre in Norway” and “Two Sisters: A Father, His Daughters and Their Journey Into the Syrian Jihad.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Marc TracyRobin and David Kowalski barely recognized their daughter Bailey when she was visiting home in White Lake, Mich., in the spring of 2015.Their perennially positive daughter, who was about to finish her freshman year at Michigan State, was sullen. She had suddenly decided to abandon her long-held dream of being a sports journalist, and she refused to tell her mother, in whom she typically confided everything, why.It was not until October, after months of erratic behavior, that Ms. Kowalski told her parents that she had been raped by three Michigan State basketball players that April. The incident left her depressed and considering harming herself. She dropped out of college for a while and received counseling. She gave up sports journalism for good.Last year, Ms. Kowalski, 22, who is speaking publicly about her case for the first time, sued Michigan State in federal court for violating her rights under Title IX, the federal law mandating gender equity in higher education, as a Jane Doe. The lawsuit asserts that Michigan State mishandles sexual misconduct complaints against athletes. One woman said two football players raped her in 2009, but she was not advised of her Title IX rights, the lawsuit said, and another woman said three basketball players raped her in 2010, after which the accusations were not reported outside the athletic department.A Michigan State motion to dismiss the case is pending. A university spokeswoman, Emily Guerrant, declined to comment on the case while the litigation is ongoing but said Michigan State “is dedicated to making sure every student receives fair treatment and support when they need it.”Ms. Kowalski has decided to come forward, hoping she can persuade other victims, at Michigan State or elsewhere, to tell their stories.According to Ms. Kowalski, when a university counselor learned that the men who she said assailed her were members of the basketball team — a storied and treasured program that has played in 10 Final Fours, including this year’s — the counselor discouraged her from reporting it, the lawsuit said.“If you pursue this, you are going to be swimming with some really big fish,” a staff member told Ms. Kowalski, the lawsuit said.Ms. Kowalski plans to hold a news conference in East Lansing on Thursday, the fourth anniversary of the incident. A month later, she will graduate from Michigan State.“I don’t want any other girl who has gone through this or who God forbid may have to go through something like this to feel for one second that they should be too afraid to come out and do something,” Ms. Kowalski said in a phone interview last week.Her lawyer, Karen Truszkowski, said that a separate Title IX investigation initiated by the university last June had dragged on.“It will not be resolved within a year,” said Ms. Truszkowski, who declined to discuss the substance of the investigation because it is pending. “That has consumed her entire senior year.”Ms. Kowalski is still declining to name the men she says raped her on the night of April 11, 2015. All were members of the 2014-15 Spartans team, she said. She has not filed a police report, but is considering doing so.It’s still unclear to Ms. Kowalski who at Michigan State eventually learned about what she told the counselor. “I still to this day don’t know who knew,” she said. “How far up. Who was the last person to know about what I told the counselor in the counseling center the day I went in?”More than a year ago, Michigan State’s president and athletic director resigned after the depredations of Lawrence G. Nassar, the former university doctor who has been accused of sexual abuse by hundreds of women, including Olympic gymnasts, and convicted of sex crimes, became a source of national outrage.Also last winter, ESPN reported several previously undisclosed sexual misconduct allegations against members of Michigan State’s football and men’s basketball programs. In several instances, ESPN said, the accusations were handled by the athletics program, rather than the venues mandated by federal law.“There’s a lot that they have yet to take accountability for, as far as what’s going on in the athletic department and the systematic errors that are allowing the athletic department to be put above females that have been victims of sexual assault by athletes,” Ms. Kowalski said.The lawsuit states that the sexual assault occurred in April 2015 after an informal celebration at an East Lansing bar for the basketball team, which had recently returned from the Final Four in Indianapolis, where it lost to the eventual champion, Duke, in the national semifinals. (Ms. Kowalski, days away from turning 19, said she used fake identification to enter the bar.)Ms. Kowalski’s roommate encouraged her to approach the players.“I knew their stats, numbers, everything,” Ms. Kowalski said, adding, “She knew how I looked up to those guys.”A team member invited Ms. Kowalski to his place for a party, and she accepted a drive to an off-campus apartment, the lawsuit said. When she arrived, there was no one else there, and Ms. Kowalski, who had already had trouble holding her glass at the bar despite not drinking much, had trouble controlling her thumbs to send a text, the lawsuit said.The three players took turns raping her, the lawsuit said. She woke up later in the apartment and took a taxi back to her dorm.Ms. Kowalski visited the Michigan State University Counseling Center roughly a week later, she said. The counselor she met with appeared to change her response to Ms. Kowalski upon learning that the men she said had attacked her were members of the basketball team. The counselor immediately insisted on having a second person in the room, the lawsuit said. Ms. Kowalski was not advised to seek a physical exam or pregnancy or S.T.D. testing, and was not made aware of her rights under Title IX.With cases with “guys with big names,” she was told, according to the lawsuit, the best thing was to “just get yourself better.”“She lived with that thought of, ‘Just get yourself better,’” said her mother, Robin Kowalski, in a phone interview last week.When Bailey Kowalski first sued Michigan State last spring, the university rebutted her claims in a statement with significant and unusual detail. “We have not found any evidence or indication that she was discouraged in any way to make a Title IX complaint or a complaint to the police department,” it said. It also said that the university police eventually contacted her.A day later, Michigan State’s former interim president, John Engler, said in a statement, “We regret that we provided an unnecessary amount of detail” in the initial response.“They went out to the press and essentially addressed my lawsuit as a lie,” Ms. Kowalski said, “which basically was a message to anyone else coming forward with allegations similar to mine that, ‘If you’re going to do that, we’re going to completely exploit you.’”After taking much of a semester off and receiving outpatient psychiatric treatment, Ms. Kowalski elected to return to Michigan State, believing that transferring to an unknown campus where she did not know anyone would have been worse. Her brother is currently a sophomore at Michigan State.She suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder, she said, and felt she could never return to the vocation to which she had long aspired. She switched from a planned double-major in journalism and Spanish to one in biology. She hopes eventually to become a veterinarian.AdvertisementSupported byBooks of The TimesBy Jennifer SzalaiWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.Americans supposedly have little patience for expertise these days — except, it seems, when it comes to parenting experts, who continue to churn out guides as quickly as their audience can consume them. This appetite for counsel inevitably reflects deeper, often unspoken middle-class aspirations and anxieties; as the psychoanalyst and essayist Adam Phillips once observed, the appeal of such books goes beyond the immediate need to deal with a sullen teenager or a sleepless newborn. “Our obsession with child development and with so-called parenting skills,” he wrote, “has become a code for our forlorn attempt to find a sanity for ourselves.”Jennifer Traig apparently agrees. In “Act Natural: A Cultural History of Misadventures in Parenting,” she takes solace in how useless, contradictory and downright harmful so much advice has historically been. “The things we take for granted as normal and natural strike parents in other parts of the world as absurd and dangerous,” she writes, in this brisk survey of child-rearing tips through the ages.As the parent of two children and the author of previous books about obsessive-compulsive disorder and hypochondria, Traig wanted to examine how “developed-world, middle-class Westerners” learned to follow a script that is so culturally specific. She ended her research feeling not just informed but relieved: “People have done crazy, crazy things to their children throughout history, and the species continued all the same.”The species may have survived, though the fates of individual children were another matter. The history recounted in this book is studded with violence and death. Child abandonment was once routine; in Ancient Rome, 20 to 40 percent of babies were left to die of exposure. Even the advent of foundling hospitals in European cities didn’t help much; the mortality rates in some institutions (understaffed, suffused with disease) could reach 90 percent.Parents have always found raising children to entail a great deal of work, enlisting relatives and servants — sometimes handing offspring over to religious orders. As Traig says, “the history of parenting is, in large part, a history of trying to get out of it.” This was true even when babies were considered little laborers-to-be, expected to contribute within a few years to the family livelihood.Philosophers like Locke and Rousseau published treatises on childhood education, but it was only toward the end of the 19th century — when children became, in the sociologist Viviana Zelizer’s memorable phrase, “economically worthless but emotionally priceless” — that parents began to see themselves as wholly responsible for cultivating a child’s intellectual and emotional life. In the 1970s, the term “to parent” emerged as an active verb.A lot of parenting advice has historically had to do with the physical needs of the mother and child; a lot of it also turned out to be fatal. Colostrum, for instance, was once considered so toxic that mothers were instructed to feed their newborns honey instead, thereby trading the antibodies in breastmilk for botulism.It was often male doctors who dispensed such advice — the same cohort that was so sure of its expertise that it unwittingly infected laboring mothers with puerperal fever in maternity hospitals during the 18th and 19th centuries. Doctors blamed the epidemic on sour breastmilk, tight corsets, bad air; it took a while before they grudgingly bought into the germ theory of disease and started to wash their hands between patients and after autopsies.Traig’s book is filled with tales of men telling women what to do, and she’s candid about how furious it makes her. She calls one eminent 19th-century doctor “A PATRONIZING CHAUVINIST” (the all caps are all hers; she later admits that her go-to disciplinary move with her own children is to yell). Old medical textbooks, from the ancient Greeks through the medieval Europeans, are filled with men’s specious assertions about feminine hygiene: “I think we can agree that anyone who feels qualified to hold forth on something he has no actual knowledge of can, rather accurately, be called a douche,” she quips.She isn’t wrong, but the nonstop vaudeville can get wearying. Some of her punch lines are so broad that they should be accompanied by a sad trombone. She describes the Puritans arriving to America “like a wet, smallpox-infected blanket to put a damper on all the fun” (genocide, amirite?). Lewis Carroll’s creepy overture to a young girl “starts to sound an awful lot like an invitation to a pool party at Roman Polanski’s.”Parenting is a subject that generates so much piety that you can’t fault Traig for having a sense of gallows humor, though the calibration is off. Part of this has to do with how skillful and fluid a writer she is otherwise — the facts seem to tumble forth, in a way that makes her jokes feel superfluous (when they aren’t awful) and strenuous (when they are). Much of the story she tells is pieced together from other books, including Ann Hulbert’s “Raising America” and Sarah Blaffer Hrdy’s “Mother Nature.” Still, it’s a fascinating narrative, tracing the long history of mistakes and reversals and cultural presuppositions that have structured our most intimate relationships.Depicting herself as both extremely lazy and extremely anxious, Traig says that what she wants the most as a parent is some reassurance that she isn’t doing it wrong: “Parenting is so hard; and like our kids, we’re all looking for permission to slack off in some areas.” Sometimes, though, Traig can’t help herself, declining to step away from the kid or the joke. “Doing nothing,” she admits, “is often the hardest thing to do.”AdvertisementSupported byVideos of action figures melting on a waffle iron scratched an itch I didn’t know I had. By Emily MatcharMs. Matchar is a writer in Hong Kong. I was pregnant, anxious and looking for an online diversion to help me sleep (repeatedly searching the internet for “rare chromosomal disorders” wasn’t cutting it). Then, one dawn, I stumbled through a YouTube portal and into the universe of Oddly Satisfying videos.These videos are compilations of physical objects being manipulated in certain highly specific ways: melted, smoothed, extruded, carved, sliced, dissolved. Frosting piped fluidly over a layer cake. Molten glass slowly ballooning from the tip of a blowpipe. Crayon wax swirling in a factory vat, propelled by the rhythmic swoosh of a giant paddle.“Ooooooh,” I whispered to myself. “This is it.”YouTube and Instagram are home to thousands upon thousands of these videos. Their titles are expository and sometimes grammatically spotty: Oddly Satisfying Video That Will Put You in Absolute Calmness, 1,000,000 Dominos Falling Is Oddly Satisfying, Satisfying Floam Crushing Compilation No. 6. Some of the videos are compilations of reused clips — baking tutorials, pottery demos, factory tours. But many are purpose-built. Knives slice bricks of colored clay into immaculate rectangles against a white infinity backdrop. Disembodied hands knead stress balls or stir paint in hypnotic circles.The videos seemed to scratch an itch I didn’t know I had. If I watched long enough, I felt lightly hypnotized, as if one of those disembodied hands had reached in and massaged my brain.It was 2016 when I discovered Oddly Satisfying, and I needed a little brain massage. The terrors of imminent parenthood aside, the whole world seemed to be cracking up. In late October my son was born. Two weeks later, Donald Trump was elected president. Awake at 2 a.m., jiggling the baby, I’d tap open my phone, glance at the headlines and immediately hide it under my pillow. Oddly Satisfying was one of the few corners of the internet that didn’t make me want to cry and never stop.That year was, perhaps not coincidentally, when Oddly Satisfying exploded in popularity. Like many niche preoccupations, it emerged from Reddit; a subreddit dedicated to posting Oddly Satisfying videos and GIFs was born in May 2013 and now has 2.6 million members. A Google search for “oddly satisfying” brings up about 4.7 million results.Kevin Allocca, head of culture and trends at YouTube and author of “Videocracy,” a book about the cultural impact of viral videos, says the phenomenon of Oddly Satisfying has always existed — we just didn’t have a name for it.“You started to have a nomenclature around it and you started having a taxonomy, and you were able to explain a thing you’d always seen and enjoyed,” he said, “which allowed it to flourish.”[Never be uninteresting. Read the most thought-provoking, funny, delightful and raw stories from The New York Times Opinion section.]But just what makes Oddly Satisfying so oddly satisfying? While the videos have yet to become the subject of major scientific inquiry, there are some theories. It may have to do with symmetry, patterns and repetition, which our brains seem to find inherently pleasing. It may have to do with a sense of “flow” — the state of being completely absorbed in an experience. Or it may be related to the “autonomous sensory meridian response,” or A.S.M.R., the phenomenon of deriving a pleasurably tingly sensation from certain auditory stimuli, like tapping or whispering or crinkling, which is itself a bit of a mystery.“There may be something in the physical exploration of slime, or soap, or frosting in these videos that scratches a need to learn about how those materials behave,” Emma Barratt, a British psychology researcher who wrote one of the earliest papers about the autonomous sensory meridian response, told me. “Getting that information may be what’s innately satisfying.”Whatever the neuropsychological explanation, it’s clear that Oddly Satisfying videos serve as a form of self-care, to use another term that has spiked in recent years. While it’s a journalistic cliché to talk about “our anxious times,” it does seem that the early 21st century is doing something to our heads. Self-reported anxiety rates are high and growing. Geopolitics and economics aside, some of this probably has to do with the internet itself. Much of the online world is designed to agitate, thriving on fear and anxiety and anger — outrage clickbait, disaster porn, FOMO-inducing social media. The medium itself is stressful, with its red dot alerts and needy open tabs. Oddly Satisfying is everything the rest of the internet isn’t — soothing, slow-paced, non-interactive, noncommercial.Unlike other types of self-care, watching Oddly Satisfying videos doesn’t necessitate a yoga studio membership or a snail slime-infused Korean sheet mask or so much as a sip of $11 cold-pressed juice. It doesn’t involve learning to meditate (yeah, yeah, I hear you, I’ll “try Headspace” one day never).All it takes to get oddly satisfied is to learn your own preferences. Just watch a few videos. At first you’ll wonder who the audience could possibly be for something so idiosyncratic. Then you’ll watch a clip of someone shaving a bar of soap with a vegetable peeler, and suddenly you’ll realize you are that audience.Or maybe you’re a cookie-decorating video person, mesmerized at the sight of royal icing piped in mandala-intricate configurations to the sounds of ambient techno. If slime — a squishy, viscous mixture of glue and Borax — turns out to be your catnip, you’re in luck: Oddly Satisfying slime videos are so prevalent they make the list of YouTube’s top 50 most common search terms.It’s telling, I think, that “satisfying” is the chosen descriptor for the genre. We’ve grown used to jazzier adjectives — hilarious, awesome, amazing, absolute genius. In comparison, “satisfying” feels at first underwhelming. But “to satisfy” means to give you exactly what you need or want. How often do we get that? Even for the length of a 10-minute video. Even though we don’t know why. Even if it involves watching action figures being melted on a waffle iron.Emily Matcher is a writer in Hong Kong. AdvertisementSupported byBy Corey KilgannonWOODBRIDGE, Conn. — Among the family and wedding photos in Bob and Jill Ellis’s living room are black-and-white shots of Lou Gehrig, the Yankees’ legendary first baseman who died in 1941 at age 37.No, Gehrig was not a member of the family, said Mr. Ellis, 76, “but there’s always been something of a family connection.”Elsewhere in the house, in Woodbridge, Conn., just outside New Haven, there is a photo in the bathroom of Gehrig clowning with his Yankees teammate Babe Ruth and a painting in the dining room that Gehrig was given during a 1931 trip to Japan.These, and many other of Gehrig’s personal items, have been in the family since Gehrig’s mother died in 1954 and willed them to Ms. Ellis’s parents, who were her friends and neighbors in Westchester County and Connecticut in the 1940s and 1950s, said Mr. Ellis, a retired IBM manager.Now the items are part of an online auction being held by Heritage Auctions, with bidding lasting through this weekend.The Gehrig mementos include one of his game caps and baseballs autographed by the likes of Hall of Famers Ruth and Ty Cobb, as well as many personal documents and dozens of original photos, including the earliest known shots of Gehrig as a child.“This is part of Lou Gehrig’s history and it’s been sitting for decades in attics and closets,” Mr. Ellis said. “A lot of the stuff is personal and really tells his story.”The online auction provides a rare opportunity for the general public to see some of these items.“It gives you that extra glimpse into the personal life of Gehrig and his family that you wouldn’t have been able to see otherwise,” said Rob Rosen, vice president of sports collectibles at Heritage Auctions.Previous viewings were limited to a handful of people in the area when Mr. Ellis would occasionally pull the items out of an old 500-pound safe in his basement and show them at the local Kiwanis Club or a school, or when he invited a few older fans to his house for a drink.He always offered the baseball hat for a try-on and photo opportunity, he said, because, “That was such a one-of-a-kind cap, and this was a way that they could sort of touch Lou Gehrig.”The hat still has its shape, along with Gehrig’s name stitched into its leather brim. Auction officials are predicting it could bring upward of $200,000.The entire collection could yield more than $400,000, Mr. Rosen said.Gehrig items have drawn large sums in the past, including a jersey he wore that sold for $870,000 at auction, and his rookie contract with the Yankees in 1924, which sold for $480,000, Mr. Rosen said.Mr. Ellis lives midway between Yankee Stadium and Fenway Park, in Boston, near the theoretical border that divides Red Sox Nation from rivals in Yankees territory, where geographic baseball loyalties are mixed.Mr. Ellis is a Yankees fan, but his son and daughter root for the Red Sox.“If they had been die-hard Yankee fans, I’d have more reason to keep the collection,” he said. Instead, despite their Red Sox loyalty, he will give money from the auction to his grandchildren who are heading off to college.And so these Red Sox fans will benefit from proceeds received from selling an old Christmas card Ruth sent Gehrig, in which Ruth uses bats to spell out “Merry Christmas” on the field as Santa looks from the edge of the Yankees dugout.The college fund will also be enriched by a signed registration slip for the 1926 Peerless coupe Gehrig bought shortly after joining the Yankees.The collection also includes a 1933 letter from Gehrig to National City Bank of New Rochelle, listing his financial holdings and itemizing the stocks he was amassing while compiling his career home run total of 493 and his .340 lifetime batting average over 17 years with the Yankees.Playing in 2,130 consecutive games helped earn Gehrig the nickname the Iron Horse. Gehrig retired in 1939 and, stricken with a terminal disease, he stood before fans at Yankee Stadium on July 4 of that year during an appreciation day and declared himself the “luckiest man on the face of the earth.” It is one of the more poignant moments in baseball history and was immortalized in the 1942 film “The Pride of the Yankees” with Gary Cooper.Two years later, Gehrig died, from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a neuromuscular disorder that came to be known as “Lou Gehrig’s disease.”Gehrig grew up poor in Upper Manhattan and lived and played in New York nearly his entire life.“He was a New Yorker through and through, from his accent to his public schooling,” said Jonathan Eig, who wrote the 2005 Gehrig biography “Luckiest Man.” “Between the time he spent in New York, and his talent, he may be the greatest New York athlete of all time.”Since Gehrig was a relatively private man who died young, left few survivors and never wrote a memoir, any additional artifacts are considered valuable contributions to his legacy, Mr. Eig said.Gehrig played baseball for Columbia University when games were played on campus between the stately buildings in the Morningside Heights neighborhood in Manhattan in the early 1920s.He joined the Yankees in 1923, the same year the first Yankee Stadium opened. He and Ruth became the home run-hitting heroes of New York. He bought a house in New Rochelle, just north of New York City, for himself and his working-class German-born parents, Heinrich and Christina Gehrig.A small pendant in the Ellises’ collection attests to Gehrig’s membership in the New Rochelle Elks Lodge. When he married in 1933, he and his wife, Eleanor, bought a house nearby at 9 Meadow Lane, a Queen Anne-style home with four bedrooms.The house has changed little over the years and is currently up for sale, for $589,000.One problem is that the open houses often draw more Gehrig fans than serious buyers, said Glorianne Mattesi, a real estate agent who is showing the house.“For some people, it’s a bonus that it was his house,” she said. “For others, the draw is just the charm of a vintage home with high ceilings and a lot of space.”A well-known aspect of Gehrig’s personal life was that he was a mama’s boy, and that his overprotective mother never took to Eleanor.Among the items that Mr. Ellis did not put up for sale are Christina Gehrig’s birth certificate and her will, as well as legal briefs in the lawsuits between her and Eleanor over Lou Gehrig’s life insurance policy after his death.As for the trove that he is selling off, he said: “It all helps tell Lou Gehrig’s story and I’m glad the public is getting to see it.”AdvertisementSupported byMost people with dementia have a number of brain abnormalities, not just Alzheimer’s disease. The finding is forcing scientists to rethink the search for treatments.By Gina KolataAllan Gallup, a retired lawyer and businessman, grew increasingly forgetful in his last few years. Eventually, he could no longer remember how to use a computer or the television. Although he needed a catheter, he kept forgetting and pulling it out.It was Alzheimer’s disease, the doctors said. So after Mr. Gallup died in 2017 at age 87, his brain was sent to Washington University in St. Louis to be examined as part of a national study of the disease. But it wasn’t just Alzheimer’s disease, the researchers found. Although Mr. Gallup’s brain had all the hallmarks — plaques made of one abnormal protein and tangled strings of another — the tissue also contained clumps of proteins called Lewy bodies, as well as signs of silent strokes. Each of these, too, is a cause of dementia. Mr. Gallup’s brain was typical for an elderly patient with dementia. Although almost all of these patients are given a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease, nearly every one of them has a mixture of brain abnormalities. [Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]For researchers trying to find treatments, these so-called mixed pathologies have become a huge scientific problem. Researchers can’t tell which of these conditions is the culprit in memory loss in a particular patient, or whether all of them together are to blame. Another real possibility, noted Roderick A. Corriveau, who directs dementia research programs at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, is that these abnormalities are themselves the effects of a yet-to-be-discovered cause of dementia.These questions strike at the very definition of Alzheimer’s disease. And if you can’t define the condition, how can you find a treatment? In addition to plaques and tangles, other potential villains found in the brains of people with a diagnosis of Alzheimer’s include silent strokes and other blood vessel diseases, as well as a poorly understood condition called hippocampal sclerosis. Potential culprits also include an accumulation of Alpha-synuclein, the abnormal protein that makes up Lewy bodies. And some patients have yet another abnormal protein in their brains, TDP-43.No one knows how to begin approaching the multitude of other potential problems found in the brains of Alzheimer’s patients. So, until recently, they were mostly ignored.“I wouldn’t say it’s a dirty little secret,” said Dr. John Hardy, an Alzheimer’s researcher at University College London. “Everybody knows about it. But we don’t know what to do about it.”In interviews, some experts said they had been reluctant to talk much about mixed pathologies for fear of sounding too negative. But “at a certain point we have to be somewhat more realistic and rethink what we are doing,” said Dr. Albert Hofman, chairman of the epidemiology department at Harvard’s T.H. Chan School of Public Health.The problem began with the very discovery of Alzheimer’s disease. In 1906, Dr. Alois Alzheimer, a German psychiatrist and neuroanatomist, described a 50-year-old woman with dementia. On autopsy, he found peculiar plaques and twisted, spaghetti-like proteins known as tangles in her brain. Ever since, they have been considered the defining features of Alzheimer’s disease.But scientists now believe this woman must have had a very rare genetic mutation that guarantees a person will get a pure form of Alzheimer’s by middle age. Patients with the mutation appeared to develop only plaques and tangles, and no other pathologies. So for decades, plaques and tangles were the focus of research into dementia. The rare genetic mutations led to an overproduction of amyloid, it turned out, the abnormal protein in those plaques. To many scientists, that suggested that amyloid was the fundamental cause of Alzheimer’s disease.More plaques usually meant more severe dementia, in both older and younger patients. So researchers tested drugs that could attack amyloid or stop its production in genetically engineered mice. The drugs worked beautifully. Scientists recognized that mice were an imperfect model — they never develop dementia — but the studies were encouraging. So it was a huge disappointment when, over and over, those drugs failed in clinical trials in patients.  Tests of anti-plaque drugs continue, despite the increasing recognition that many factors may combine to cause dementia — or that, perhaps, the true cause has yet to be found.“What motivates us is the depth of the unmet need,” said Dr. Dan Skovronsky, chief scientific officer of the drug company Eli Lilly, which continues to investigate anti-amyloid treatments. “That’s why we keep going forward. But it is such a tough, tough problem, and made tougher because of the mixed pathology.”What to do now? Scientists are struggling the reframe the problem. Some think research should be more focused on age. “We can’t avoid the fact the number one risk factor for Alzheimer’s disease is age, and many of these other pathologies are age-associated,” said Dr. John Morris, a professor of neurology at Washington University in St. Louis. “We don’t see them in younger people.”Carol Brayne, an epidemiologist at Cambridge University, has been saying as much for decades. There is something significant, she has found, about the obvious fact that the older a person gets, the more likely he or she is to develop dementia. By their 90s, one out of every two people has dementia.A more optimistic view is that there may be something in the brain that sets off a cascade of multiple pathologies. If true, blocking that factor could stop the process and prevent dementia.Dr. Hofman is convinced that the precipitating factor is diminished blood flow to the brain. “Alzheimer’s disease is a vascular disease,” he said. Supporting this view, he added, are data from nine studies in the United States and Western Europe consistently finding a 15 percent decline in the incidence of new Alzheimer’s cases over the past 25 years.“Why is that? I think the only reasonable candidate is improved vascular health,” Dr. Hofman said. The most important factor is the decline in smoking, he believes, but people in rich countries also are more likely to better control high blood pressure and cholesterol levels.Dr. Seth Love, professor of pathology at the University of Bristol in England, noted that a core feature of Alzheimer’s is a reduction in blood flow through the cerebrum of the brain. That happens even in people with the genetic mutation that leads Alzheimer’s in middle age. Fifteen to 20 years before these people have dementia, blood to their brains slows.“We don’t know why,” Dr. Love said.Or perhaps it really is amyloid that begins the avalanche of other problems. Some researchers still hold out hope that if anti-amyloid drugs are started early enough, they might prevent dementia.  Clinical trials are testing the idea now in people genetically disposed to get Alzheimer’s disease. But even if the drugs work, will they work in the elderly patients who make up the bulk of those with an Alzheimer’s diagnosis — but who don’t have anything resembling a pure form of the disease? Perhaps those drugs will have only a small effect in patients with mixed pathologies, Dr. Hardy said. It would take gigantic trials going on for years to see such a tiny effect.“Those aren’t the kind of medicines we are looking for,” said Dr. Skovronsky, of Eli Lilly. “We want something that has a big effect.”Dr. Skovronsky has been forced to do some soul-searching. Trying anti-amyloid drugs in old people in the early or middle stages of Alzheimer’s just is not working. But when is it best to intervene, and in whom? And do scientists need to find drugs for all the other pathologies in the brains of dementia patients, as well? AdvertisementSupported byAt WARIn this week’s At War newsletter, a look at one of the oldest and most archaic punishments in the United States military: three days’ confinement on bread and water.By John IsmayAt War is a newsletter about the experiences and costs of war with stories from Times reporters and outside voices.In 2019, one of the oldest and most archaic punishments in the United States military — three days’ confinement on bread and water — will be no more. On Christmas Day, my colleague Dave Philipps reported that the Navy’s bread-and-water punishment for the most junior enlisted sailors has been eliminated in a new revision to the Uniform Code of Military Justice that went into effect on Jan. 1.It’s a change long in the making in the United States even though the punishment has been outlawed elsewhere for decades. For what are essentially misdemeanor offenses, service members can be punished by their commanding officers if the commander thinks that a preponderance of the evidence points to their guilt. The punishment is considered less severe than what would be doled out in a military trial, but the burden of proof for establishing guilt in these administrative hearings is also far lower.Three days’ confinement on bread and water is considered the most severe administrative punishment possible in the Navy, and it may only be awarded to enlisted sailors in the three lowest pay grades. Once a sailor is promoted to the E-4 paygrade, that of a third-class petty officer, he or she cannot receive the draconian punishment.The idea of confining people found guilty of relatively minor offenses and feeding them only plain bread and water for days at a time has been around for more than a century.[Get a weekly roundup of Times coverage of war delivered to your inbox. Sign up here.]In August 1882, The New York Times reported that a United States Marine named Edgar B. Snow was convicted of falling asleep on guard duty in Portsmouth, N.H., and sentenced to a number of days imprisonment on bread and water — though just how many days is unclear, thanks to what appears to be a smudge in the printing plate. Evidently the punishment was not enough to set the young Marine straight. In November 1882, Private Snow, reportedly the grandnephew of the former President William Henry Harrison, was discharged from the Corps following conviction at court-martial for an unauthorized absence.The bread-and-water treatment has also been applied to prisoners of war. In early 1945, more than 2,000 German prisoners of war held at Camp Perry, Ohio, received that punishment when they essentially went on strike. When 180 of the prisoners decided to stop working at the Crile General Hospital near Cleveland on Feb. 28, all 2,180 of the German P.O.W.s went on bread-and-water rations as punishment. Lt. Col. E.C. McCormick Jr., the prison-camp commander, said that the diet would be continued until the Germans “changed their minds.” Days later, under the headline “Bread and Water Subdue Nazis,” The Times reported that the prisoners notified McCormick that they were in fact ready to work once more.I myself never saw the punishment meted out onboard my first tour on a destroyer. My ship was small enough that it did not have a brig (basically a small jail) aboard. Had my commanding officers wanted to punish someone with bread and water, we would have had to drive them from the naval station at 32nd Street in San Diego to the Marine Corps air base at Miramar where they had a proper jail. My commanders felt that loss of pay, loss of rank and restriction to the ship were punishment enough.You can read Dave Philipps’s account of the bread-and-water punishment’s demise in the United States here. Even in 2018, it still had its supporters in the ranks.John Ismay is a staff writer who covers armed conflict for The New York Times Magazine. He is based in Washington.Tuesday, February 5, 2019 | New York CityA rare convergence of experts on the human costs of war will discuss the often-ignored outgrowth of the global war on terror: two decades of civilian casualties. Times journalist and Marine Corps infantry veteran C. J. Chivers, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for his 2016 story about an Afghan war veteran suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, will moderate the discussion. The panelists are Alissa J. Rubin, the Times Paris bureau chief who won a Pulitzer Prize for foreign reporting on Afghanistan in 2015; Azmat Khan, an investigative reporter and New York Times Magazine contributor, who uncovered civilian casualties among nearly 150 airstrike sites across northern Iraq; and writer Brian Castner, a veteran of the Iraq war and weapons expert for Amnesty International’s crisis team, who also investigates war crimes and human rights violations. Get tickets here.White House Mulls Jim Webb, Ex-Democratic Senator, as Next Defense Secretary: Mr. Webb’s views align closely with President Trump’s drive to pull American troops from the Middle East and confront China more aggressively.Their Influence Diminishing, Veterans Groups Compete With Each Other and Struggle With the V.A.: The largest, older veterans service organizations see their influence diluted as newer, smaller groups focused on post-9/11 veterans compete for money, influence and relevance.The Army, in Need of Recruits, Turns Focus to Liberal-Leaning Cities: Too few recruits are signing up from cities like Chicago and Seattle, so the Army is trying to frame enlistment as a patriotic detour.Saudi Arabia Denies Issuing American Weapons to Sudanese: Sudanese soldiers fighting for the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen had told The Times that they had been issued weapons they believed were American.Time to Get Out of Afghanistan: The United States is spending beyond its means on a mission that might only be helping its strategic rivals.A Day, a Life: When a Medic Was Killed in Gaza, Was It an Accident?: When an Israeli soldier killed Rouzan al-Najjar, Palestinians called her an innocent martyr. Israel portrayed her as a threat. The truth is more complicated.British Design for D-Day Stamp Gets Address Wrong by 8,000 Miles: A commemorative stamp for the 75th anniversary of the D-Day landings showed American troops on a beach in Asia, instead of Normandy.AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam NossiterPARIS — A French president struggling to reassert his grip after weeks of violent demonstrations across the country assured citizens on Monday night that he understood their anger — but said that henceforth order would be “applied without compromise.”In a potentially pivotal moment of his presidency, Emmanuel Macron sought to calm a country shaken by over six weeks of unrest, in which wealthy neighborhoods of Paris have been repeatedly hit by looting and burning.Mr. Macron, in the traditional New Year’s Eve speech given by French presidents, alternated between admonition and conciliation. But his overall message for the “Yellow Vest” protesters behind the demonstrations was unmistakable: Curb the disorder.“I’ve seen and heard unthinkable, unacceptable things,” Mr. Macron said.He vowed to “ensure everyone of their rights” but also to “expect from them their duties.”The president offered an unsparing, if broad, assessment of the protest movement, saying that some “take as a pretext that they are speaking in the name of the people” when “in fact they are merely speaking for a hateful mob that takes after elected officials, the police, journalists, Jews, foreigners, homosexuals.”“This is quite simply the negation of France,” Mr. Macron said.He was referring to some extremist rhetoric that has emerged most recently on the fringes of the Yellow Vest movement, which began as a citizen revolt over a rise in gasoline taxes, then spread quickly all over France as it encompassed general anger over economic inequality and a heavy fiscal burden.In its latest stages, the protests have veered on the fringes into hate-filled rhetoric.Mr. Macron’s tone on Monday was true to form — he has been accused of being didactic — and it was uncertain if his words would be enough to calm a country that is seeing some of the greatest expressions of popular anger in 50 years.Mr. Macron said the anger “had come from far back,” suggesting that it had started well before the beginning of his presidency in 2017. Yet while a big tax burden has been a feature of French life for several decades, Mr. Macron himself has become a symbol of economic inequality for many of the protesters.Early in his presidency, he enacted measures (mostly symbolic) to lighten the tax load on the wealthy and employers, while ratcheting up the burden (again symbolically) on the less well-to-do, including retirees on state pensions.He was quickly tagged as the “President of the Rich,” a label he has been unable to shake. On some of France’s traffic roundabouts, where the Yellow Vests held sway for much of November and December, mock guillotines were erected with Mr. Macron’s effigy.Mr. Macron appeared to briefly put himself on the side of the protesters, declaring at the outset that the lesson of the Yellow Vest movement — he was careful not to name it — was that “we are not resigned,” seemingly identifying with the pugnacity of the protesters. He reminded his audience that he too grew up “in the provinces,” though he quickly escaped for Paris’s glittering prizes.The political opposition was quick Monday to criticize the French president, saying he had failed to shake what it said was the lack of empathy that has gotten him into trouble with French voters before. Critics noted the return of characteristic Macron refrains: “dignity,” “respect,” “vision,” “replacing man at the center of the contemporary project.”Mr. Macron is fond of such propositions, but they do him no favors with rank-and-file voters in deep France.An opinion survey released Monday by Harris Interactive found Mr. Macron at a low point in his presidency, with only 31 percent expressing confidence in him.With the balance of power between the angry street and the country’s shaken institutions thrown into question, Mr. Macron faced a challenge Monday to reassert authority. Clearly he was at pains to do so.Unusually, he stood up during the entire 16-minute speech, in contrast to his usual seated posture behind a gilded and ornate desk in the Élysée Palace. And unlike in a speech three weeks ago at the height of the crisis, Mr. Macron spoke calmly Monday, with self-assurance.In the earlier speech, appearing near desperation, a haggard-looking Mr. Macron promised a quick infusion of 10 billion euros to satisfy Yellow Vest demands, including an increase in the minimum wage and an easing of the tax burden on pensioners.On Monday, Mr. Macron appeared less inclined to give in to the street.He advised his fellow citizens to “accept reality” in France, and to bear in mind the country’s excellent infrastructure, near free schools and quality medical care.“Let’s stop thinking ill of ourselves, or to believe that France would be a country where solidarity doesn’t exist, where one always has to spend more,” Mr. Macron said, using the broad-brush concept — solidarity — the French use to designate their generous array of social benefits.Mr. Macron’s government is placing some hope on a “national debate” in the coming months, an organized series of government-led citizen forums it hopes will allow the Yellow Vests to vent their demands and frustrations.So far the reaction has been distinctly lukewarm — as were the early responses to Mr. Macron’s speech Monday night.“This president is an impostor,” the far-right leader Marine Le Pen said on Twitter.“As usual, his tone was that of a giver of lessons,” the leading far-left parliamentary deputy Adrien Quatennens told the French television channel BFM-TV.“The tone was pretty martial,” he said, “And I think it will simply reinforce the mobilization.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Neil GenzlingerRalph Metzner, a psychotherapist who began his career working with Timothy Leary on controversial studies at Harvard involving LSD and other drugs, then spent a lifetime exploring and writing about expanded consciousness in all sorts of cultures and settings, died on March 14 at his home in Sonoma, Calif. He was 82.His wife, Cathy Coleman, said the cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.Dr. Metzner, who received a Ph.D. at Harvard in 1962, was a graduate student there when he began working with Dr. Leary and Richard Alpert, who were clinical psychology professors and had begun exploring therapeutic and other uses for LSD, psilocybin and similar hallucinogens. The three later collaborated on “The Psychedelic Experience: A Manual Based on the Tibetan Book of the Dead” (1964), one of the core texts of the emerging psychedelic movement.Dr. Leary and Dr. Alpert (who later took the name Ram Dass) were both dismissed from Harvard in 1963 amid revelations that they had given hallucinogens to undergraduates as part of their research. Dr. Leary became an especially flamboyant figure in the counterculture, coining the catchphrase “Turn on, tune in, drop out.”Dr. Metzner took a more low-profile path but continued to work in the field, teaching for decades and writing numerous books, including “Maps of Consciousness” (1971), “The Unfolding Self: Varieties of Transformative Experience” (1986) and “The Expansion of Consciousness” (2008).His interests came to encompass far more than hallucinogenic chemicals and mushrooms.“It’s not really limited to the field of psychoactive plants and drugs anymore,” he said in a 2015 interview with the New Mexico PBS program “Report From Santa Fe.” “It’s more the general field of consciousness. You might say I’m a consciousness researcher, in all kinds of ways.”Those could include Eastern meditation, yoga, the spiritual practices of various indigenous peoples — anything, he said, that involved “expanding consciousness for increased knowledge and spiritual connection to the source or sources of life.”Among his recent interests was whether some drugs that have been demonized, like MDMA (commonly known as Ecstasy), might be useful in treating post-traumatic stress disorder or in end-of-life care.“Ralph Metzner was part of a generation of researchers who quietly and resiliently kept doing their work for decades as the mainstream of the scientific community more or less repressed research into psychedelics and alternate states of consciousness,” Jesse Jarnow, author of “Heads: A Biography of Psychedelic America” (2016), said by email. “As much as he was a pioneer for his work at Harvard in the early ’60s, he was maybe more important as someone who continued to seriously explore the insights suggested by psychedelics in aboveboard ways when those states were so often dismissed as New Age mumbo jumbo.”Among those noting his death was Zach Leary, Timothy Leary’s son. “One of the essential anchors of the psychedelic movement,” he said of Mr. Metzner on Facebook.Dr. Metzner stressed that consciousness expansion was not always a mysterious, esoteric phenomenon.“Actually, your consciousness expands every morning when you wake up,” he explained in the 2015 interview. “You’re coming out of a dream and you say, ‘Oh, here’s my room, my bed, my wife, my family, my dog, my job.’ That’s a series of consciousness expansions. And every night when you go to sleep you kind of close in. And that’s a perfectly normal thing, to expand consciousness and to also be able to contract consciousness and focus.”“The ideal,” he added, “is to have them be under your intentional control.”Ralph Humphrey Guenther Metzner was born on May 18, 1936, in Berlin. His father, Wolfgang, owned a publishing house, and his mother, Jessie (Laurie) Metzner, had worked for the League of Nations. His mother was Scottish, and after World War II he alternated between schools in Scotland and Germany before attending the Queen’s College, Oxford. After receiving a degree there, he went to Harvard in 1958 to continue his studies.In one experiment in which he was involved, inmates at a maximum-security prison were given psilocybin, a hallucinogen derived from mushrooms, to see if it reduced their recidivism rate. As with other experiments done by the Leary group, the tradition of giving the subjects a drug and then watching their reaction was not followed.“We took the drugs with them,” Dr. Metzner recalled in 2017 in an episode of a podcast Zach Leary hosts for the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies. “I had about 10 or more psychedelic experiences with a group of convicts.”Colleagues thought they were crazy to take drugs with dangerous felons, but Dr. Metzner said the concerns had been unfounded. “There was never, ever a single moment of violence in the entire time, by anybody,” he said. “Not even a single moment of fear.”He said the researchers in this and other studies had taken their work seriously. “We would collect data,” he said. “We had questionnaires. It wasn’t just tripping. It was science.”Zach Leary, whose father died in 1996, came to appreciate Dr. Metzner as a stabilizing influence in those early-’60s explorations.“During his years working with Timothy and Alpert/Ram Dass,” Mr. Leary wrote on Facebook, “it’s my feeling that he acted as the needed conduit to ground both the research and the extreme personalities of Leary/Alpert.”Dr. Metzner became a psychotherapist in the Bay Area and in 1975 joined the faculty of what was then the California Institute of Asian Studies, now the California Institute of Integral Studies. He taught there for 31 years, serving as academic dean from 1977 to 1989. He took emeritus status in 2006.Dr. Coleman, whom he married in 1988, said his interests over the years included astrology, alchemy, actualism and more. Among his many books exploring such subjects, she said, “The Unfolding Self” seemed to strike a particular chord with many readers, blending “psychology, philosophy, consciousness and numerous other topics from a cross-cultural, cross-traditional spectrum.”In the preface to a 1997 reissue of that book, Dr. Metzner explained that the transformative experiences he wrote about could have effects beyond the individual.“It appears natural for individuals, after having liberated their own minds to some degree, to want to share their insights and learnings with others and to apply them in social, economic, and political relationships,” he wrote.Dr. Metzner’s first marriage, to Susan Homer, ended in divorce in 1964. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Sophie Metzner; a stepson, Elias Jacobson; two brothers, Robin and Ken; two half brothers, Guenther Metzner and Otto Metzner; and a half sister, Anna Metzner.One of Dr. Metzner’s interests was consciousness-raising as it applies to planetary health. In 1989 he and Dr. Coleman created the Green Earth Foundation to promote education and research “dedicated,” as its mission statement says, “to the healing and harmonizing of the relationships between humanity and the Earth.”It was a subject he addressed in a 1999 book, “Green Psychology: Transforming Our Relationship to the Earth,” in which he wrote of participating in a ceremony with an indigenous people in southern Mexico that involved drinking balché, a mild intoxicant.AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders, inspired by a Bret Stephens column, offer their own ideas, turning to Sinclair Lewis, Cervantes, Voltaire and others. To the Editor:Re “When Fiction Most Becomes Trump” (column, Dec. 28):Bret Stephens cleverly analyzes how Shakespeare might tell the improbable tale of Donald Trump as both comedy and tragedy. Mr. Stephens compares Mr. Trump to Falstaff, although Mr. Trump and his caustic tweets hardly compare to Falstaff’s insults hurled toward Prince Hal: “you starveling, you elfskin, you dried neat’s tongue, you bull’s pizzle, you stockfish! ... You tailor’s-yard, you sheath, you bowcase, you vile standing tuck.”In his tragic examples, Mr. Stephens could have mentioned King Lear, who through the fog of his dementia still fancies himself “every inch a king.” One hopes that Mr. Trump will not descend into King Lear-ean madness, although one does wonder which acting cabinet chief will respond if King Donald asks, “Who is it that can tell me who I am?”Methinks we’ll know that we’re in the final act of this tragedy when King Donald tweets about filial ingratitude. But will he throw his own children under the bus? That is the question.Eileen DeboldPiscataway, N.J. To the Editor:Bret Stephens is right that the greatest writers throughout history could have featured Donald Trump as a villain in their works. One novelist who brought to life a fictional demagogue was Sinclair Lewis, the first American recipient of the Nobel Prize in Literature. In his 1935 tale of a dictatorship in America, “It Can’t Happen Here,” Lewis imagined America under the iron heel of an authoritarian president named Buzz Windrip, a homegrown fascist who rallies his base with bellicose speeches, soaring promises and shifting facts.Windrip and his supporters are challenged by a small-town newspaper editor, Doremus Jessup, who speaks words in fiction that still are relevant in fact today: “Where in all history has there ever been a people so ripe for a dictatorship as ours!”If Sinclair Lewis were alive today, he would find plenty of material in Mr. Trump and the people who continue to support his presidency.Ed TantAthens, Ga.To the Editor:In his short satirical tale “Zadig, or the Book of Fate,” Voltaire describes the fictitious great lord Irax: “The peacocks are not more vain, the doves not more voluptuous.” He is, we are told, “corrupted by vanity and voluptuousness” and “breathed nothing but false glory and false pleasures.” Zadig, the prime minister of the kingdom, undertakes to rectify the bad behavior. He does this with the cooperation of a vast entourage of the court’s sycophants and via such an uninterrupted litany of praise for Irax for all the good qualities he lacked, that after five days Irax, exhausted and chastened, begged for it to stop.President Trump does not appear to be exhausted or chastened.Jerry KavanaghPearl River, N.Y.To the Editor:In a time when the classics are nearly all forgotten by the average reader, I was heartened to read Bret Stephens’s imaginative column about how the classic writers might have portrayed Donald Trump and his minions. Missing, however, was the wonderful “Don Quixote,” by Cervantes. Written at the turn of the 17th century, “Don Quixote” conjures a character who can only be seen as a premonition of the leadership we live with today. It is the story of a man who thinks he is something he is not and who cannot tell the difference between reality and illusion. When confronted with the evidence of his illusions, he simply dismisses the reality as enchantments. While Don Quixote the character lacks the malevolence of Donald Trump the president, his misstatements and actions still cause embarrassment to himself (that he does not recognize) and sometimes tragedy for others. Cervantes wrote of Don Quixote, “He accommodated every thing he saw, with incredible facility, to the extravagant ravings of his disordered judgment.”If that doesn’t sound like Donald Trump, I don’t know what does!Jeffrey E. GreenSomerville, Mass.To the Editor:Shakespearean comedy captures the unremitting follies of Donald Trump’s presidency at least as well the histories and tragedies that Bret Stephens cites. The virtuosically awful play-within-the-play staged by the “mechanicals” in “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” is especially apt.It features a redundancy-prone character named Wall and a fumbling cast that can’t keep its lines straight. Center stage is Bottom, who so craves attention that he tries to play all the parts, overplays his own outrageously, and doesn’t even notice when (in a prank by meddling fairies) his human head is replaced by that of an ass. Watching the performance bemusedly is Duke Theseus (Robert Mueller?).In the Bard’s words: “Thou wall, O wall, O sweet and lovely wall, / Show me thy chink[!].” Jamie FumoTallahassee, Fla.The writer is a professor of English at Florida State University.To the Editor:Bret Stephens’s discussion of fictional analogies to President Trump unfortunately omits perhaps the most prescient and powerful example: Alfred Jarry’s proto-Absurdist, scatological farce “King Ubu.” Jarry’s 1896 satire of absolute power combined with absolute greed is the perfect mirror for our own Trumpian age. Ubu is a petulant, overgrown child craving attention and satisfaction of his appetites at any cost. Accompanied by his unscrupulous queen, Ubu combines primeval innocence and terrifying brutality, destroying followers and suspected rivals with equal alacrity. He is a cartoon villain come to life, devoid of psychological complexity and rational thought, his humanity reduced to a series of urges, appetites and desires. AdvertisementSupported byAT WARIn this week’s At War newsletter: Many veterans know something that the politicians who speak for military action often do not: for those who do the fighting, war is often reduced to who is near and whatever happens. By C. J. ChiversAt War is a newsletter about the experiences and costs of war with stories from Times reporters and outside voices.“I will spend the rest of my life,” Russell Worth Parker wrote to me this week, “trying to understand the last 17 years of my life.” Parker, a Marine Corps Special Operations officer, is a lieutenant colonel on active duty now in the twilight of his career. This week At War published his first essay for The New York Times, an account of his difficulties trying to explain for others the experience of almost two decades of wartime service, including one tour in Iraq and two more in Afghanistan.Late in 2017, as a group of us met to plot the return of At War to The New York Times, we had many hopes. One of them was that we could create a channel for reflection and candor from veterans about the unceasing run of years since the United States went to war after the terrorist attacks in 2001. In truth this was more than a hope. It was an article of faith.Some of us sensed that on the subject of war the passage of time works like the slow opening of an aperture. We had seen and heard the public conversation become more informed, sober and detailed as more people with service in the wars joined it. We were watching with gratitude the emergence of a new generation of writers with wartime experience. We were unsatisfied by the official descriptions of what was happening in Iraq and Afghanistan, and by work from writers who seemed more determined to be in the good graces of the wars’ organizers than in gaining a fuller and more honest grounding in their subject. And we knew, from reading on past conflicts, that much of the best writing about war comes long after combatants have put down their weapons and had time to process and re-examine what they lived. In short, we wanted At War, among its many missions, to be a place for the kinds of discussions we did not hear often enough in the early years after four passenger jets were hijacked on a bluebird morning in 2001.[Get a weekly roundup of Times coverage of war delivered to your inbox. Sign up here.]From that day a huge cross-section of people can draw a line to their own proximity to, or roles in, an extraordinary amount of uncharted violence. For then-Captain Parker of the Second Force Reconnaissance Company, the opening experience became “seven months of blood and fire and broken glass,” a life of fighting “in the homes of our enemies, among their families” and then, back in the safety of the United States, the startling and yet woefully common quandary of being unsure how to share with a loved one a particular memory. In his case it was the lingering recollection of a “2-year-old child toddling through window glass shattered by an explosive charge and leaving tiny, bloody footprints on the polished concrete floor of his home.”Many veterans know something that the Pentagon and the politicians who speak for military action often do not: that regardless of the organizing ideas behind a military campaign, for those who do the fighting, war is often reduced to who is near and whatever happens. And the rest of a life can be spent trying to make sense of it all.Tuesday, Feb. 5, 2019 | New York CityA rare convergence of experts on the human costs of war will discuss the often-ignored outgrowth of the global war on terror: two decades of civilian casualties. Times journalist and Marine Corps infantry veteran C. J. Chivers, winner of the Pulitzer Prize for his 2016 story about an Afghan war veteran suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, will moderate the discussion. The panelists are Alissa J. Rubin, the Times Paris bureau chief who won a Pulitzer Prize for foreign reporting on Afghanistan in 2015; Azmat Khan, an investigative reporter and New York Times Magazine contributor, who uncovered civilian casualties among nearly 150 airstrike sites across northern Iraq; and writer Brian Castner, a veteran of the Iraq war and weapons expert for Amnesty International’s crisis team, who also investigates war crimes and human rights violations.Get tickets here.Read the Afghan War Casualty Report from previous weeks »The Hunt for the Nazi Loot Still Sitting on Library Shelves: The art stolen by the Nazis has gotten more attention, but millions of books were also looted from Jews, and others, and have yet to be returned.‘The Taliban Made Me Fight’: What to Do With Child Recruits After They Serve Time?: Afghan children as young as 8 have been imprisoned after being caught preparing suicide attacks. Officials worry about what to do when they grow up.V.A. Seeks to Redirect Billions of Dollars Into Private Care: For individual veterans, private care could mean shorter waits, more choices and fewer requirements for co-pays. But critics say the current veterans’ health care system could be starved of resources.Shabab Claim Responsibility for Deadly Assault on Nairobi Hotel-Office Complex: The Shabab group, which has ties to Al Qaeda, struck a luxury hotel and an office complex in Kenya’s capital.North Korea’s Less-Known Military Threat: Biological Weapons: Military analysts are increasingly concerned about the nation’s “advanced, underestimated and highly lethal” bioweapons program.The Planned U.S. Troop Withdrawal From Syria: Here’s the Latest: If anyone had any illusions about just how complicated a U.S. withdrawal from Syria might be, they were unlikely to retain them after the latest bad news out of the war-torn country.A Favorite Restaurant in Syria Led ISIS to Americans: Some military officials say American soldiers had become complacent in a relatively peaceful spot in Syria. It was a fatal mistake.Colombia Bombing Strikes Bogotá Police Academy, Killing at Least 21: The car bomb attack in the capital, Bogotá, wounded dozens and spread fear that the country’s violent past was returning.AdvertisementSupported byBy Keith SchneiderHeidi Toffler, a researcher and editor who for decades served an essential though anonymous collaborative role alongside her celebrated husband, Alvin Toffler, in producing global best-selling books about the consequences of rapid change, died on Feb. 6 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 89.Toffler Associates, the couple’s consulting firm, announced her death.Though she was the unrecognized half of one of their era’s most acclaimed husband-wife writing teams, Ms. Toffler spent years ignoring appeals from Mr. Toffler and her friends to take credit for her work publicly.Their first book, “Future Shock” (1970), sold in the millions, was translated into dozens of languages and brought Mr. Toffler, who died in 2016, international fame.The book concluded that the convergence of accelerating scientific advances, broad capital investment and new and far-reaching systems of mass communications was giving birth to a wholly new global society. It foresaw, among other things, the rise of personal computers, the internet, cable television and telecommuting.Ms. Toffler’s importance to the couple’s book-writing enterprise emerged gradually. Mr. Toffler dedicated “Future Shock” to her, their 16-year-old daughter, Karen, and his parents. In 1980, he dedicated “The Third Wave” solely to Ms. Toffler, adding that her “professionalism as an editor” was “reflected on every page.”In 1990, in the preface to their third book, “Power Shift: Knowledge, Wealth, and Violence at the Edge of the 21st Century,” Mr. Toffler identified his wife as the co-author and wrote, “The trilogy is as much hers as mine.”“I don’t know where her brain ends and mine begins,” Mr. Toffler said in an interview with The New York Times in 2006 for his obituary. “She brings a kind of skepticism that saved me many times from saying foolish things.“She is very smart,” he added. “I write. But she’s the house critic who understands the ideas and how they should be structured. I asked her why she didn’t want a byline. She said she just didn’t care.”It was not until the publication in 1993 of “War and Anti-War: Survival at the Dawn of the 21st Century” that Ms. Toffler’s name appeared on the cover next to her husband’s, in the same size type.She had by then changed her mind.“The idea of having a byline didn’t really do anything for me,” she told The Times in 1993. “But each set of acknowledgments in each book was more effusive and fulsome. The feminist movement put a lot of pressure on me and said I was a very poor role model.“And then men would come up and say, ‘We just wanted to tell you we think you have such a wonderful husband for giving you all that credit’ — implying that I wasn’t doing any work. That finally pushed me over the edge.”She was credited as the co-author of two more books with her husband, “Creating a New Civilization: The Politics of the Third Wave” (1995) and “Revolutionary Wealth: How It Will Be Created and How It Will Change Our Lives” (2006).Adelaide Elizabeth Farrell, an only child who acquired the nickname Heidi as a girl, was born on Aug. 1, 1929, and grew up in the Bronx, reared by her Dutch immigrant mother, Elizabeth Antonette Farrell, who worked for the telephone company, and her stepfather, William T. Farrell, who worked for the New York City subway system. Her mother and her biological father divorced when she was very young.Known to be strong-minded, ferociously curious and adventurous, Heidi graduated from Long Island University with a degree in English.In 1948, while visiting a friend in Washington Square in Manhattan, she was introduced to her future husband, who was a year older and a student at New York University from Brooklyn. Mr. Toffler asked her to join him that evening at a concert of works by Richard Wagner. She accepted, and they became inseparable.An indifferent student, Alvin, by their account, nevertheless finished his course work at N.Y.U. at Heidi’s insistence and graduated, hoping to be a writer and to broaden his experience in the world. The couple decided to move to Cleveland, in the industrial heartland, and they were married there by a justice of the peace on April 29, 1950.They took production jobs in separate factories, obtaining a firsthand look at industrial mass production, organized labor and modern management. Ms. Toffler worked in an aluminum foundry, where she was a union shop steward.One summer, while preparing for the annual factory picnic, she learned that the company’s black workers and their families could not swim in the segregated municipal pool where the picnic was to be held. Ms. Toffler led a march and protest that desegregated the pool.“You don’t say you can’t do something to my wife,” Mr. Toffler said in the 2006 interview.Their daughter and only child, Karen, was born in Cleveland in 1954. She died of Guillain-Barré syndrome, a neurological disorder, in 2000 at 46. Ms. Toffler leaves no immediate survivors.From Cleveland the Tofflers moved to Charleston, W.Va., and later to Washington and New York as Mr. Toffler took a succession of reporting jobs for labor publications and then Fortune magazine.In 1962, Mr. Toffler left Fortune to begin what would become a hugely successful freelance journalism career, with Ms. Toffler assisting as researcher, editor, critic and strategist. She traveled with him, provided insight and helped conduct interviews, including one with the Russian novelist Vladimir Nabokov for Playboy magazine in 1964.Ms. Toffler helped her husband conceive the idea and central thesis of “Future Shock,” and, in his telling, was invaluable in framing every other book they produced.“While the intensity of her involvement varied from time to time, depending on her other commitments,” Mr. Toffler wrote in the preface to “Power Shift,” “these books required travel, research, interviews with hundreds of people around the world, careful organization and drafting, followed by endless updating and revision, and Heidi took part at every stage.”The Tofflers and a business consultant, Tom Johnson, formed Toffler Associates in 1996 in Manchester, Mass. A global forecasting and consulting company, it is now based in Arlington, Va.AdvertisementSupported byBy Heather MurphyShe’d been told that childbirth was going to be painful. But as the hours wore on, nothing bothered her — even without an epidural.“I could feel that my body was changing, but it didn’t hurt me,” recalled the woman, Jo Cameron, who is now 71. She likened it to “a tickle.” Later, she would tell prospective mothers, “Don’t worry, it’s not as bad as people say it is.”It was only recently — more than four decades later — that she learned her friends were not exaggerating.Rather, there was something different about the way her body experienced pain: For the most part, it didn’t.Scientists believe they now understand why. In a paper published Thursday in The British Journal of Anaesthesia, researchers attributed Ms. Cameron’s virtually pain-free life to a mutation in a previously unidentified gene. The hope, they say, is that the finding could eventually contribute to the development of a novel pain treatment. They believe this mutation may also be connected to why Ms. Cameron has felt little anxiety or fear throughout her life and why her body heals quickly.“We’ve never come across a patient like this,” said John Wood, the head of the Molecular Nociception Group at University College London.[Read more about how pain tolerance and anxiety may be connected.]Scientists have been documenting case studies of individuals who experience little or no pain for nearly 100 years. But the genetic mutation that seems to be responsible for Ms. Cameron’s virtual painlessness had not been previously identified.The study emerged amid major developments in the emotionally charged debate over how to responsibly treat pain. On Thursday, New York State filed one of the most sweeping legal cases yet against the Sackler family, which owns Purdue Pharma, the maker of the opioid OxyContin.And it was yet another reminder that we need less addictive alternatives for chronic pain, said Dr. Stephen G. Waxman, a neurologist at Yale and the author of “Chasing Men on Fire: The Story of the Search for a Pain Gene.” Dr. Waxman was not involved in the recent paper but he also studies people who have rare mutations that alter their experience of pain.“Each of these mutations teach us something, and point to a particular gene as a potential target for new and more effective pain medications,” he said.‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾Earlier reporting on medical mysteries• Congratulations, It’s Twins. The Doctor Is Perplexed.• It Looked Like a Beer Belly. It Turned Out He Had a 77-Pound Tumor.• When the Illness Is a Mystery, Patients Turn to These Detectives‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾‾The sequence of events that led scientists to investigate Ms. Cameron’s genes began about five years ago. She was living a happy, ordinary life on the banks of Loch Ness in Scotland with her husband, she said. After a hand operation, a doctor seemed perplexed that she was not experiencing any pain and did not want painkillers.“I guarantee I won’t need anything,” Ms. Cameron recalled telling Dr. Devjit Srivastava, a consultant in anesthesia and pain medicine at a National Health Service hospital in northern Scotland and one of the authors of the paper.A few follow-up questions revealed that Ms. Cameron was unusual. At 65, she’d needed to have her hip replaced. Because it had not caused her pain, she had not noticed anything was amiss until it was severely degenerated. Cuts, burns, fractures — these did not hurt either. In fact, it often took the smell of burning flesh or her husband identifying blood for her to notice something wrong. She also reported that eating Scotch bonnet chili peppers left only a “pleasant glow.”Dr. Srivastava referred her to University College London’s Molecular Nociception Group, a team focused on genetic approaches to understanding the biology of pain and touch. They had some clues for her. In recent decades, scientists have identified dozens of other people who process pain in unusual ways. But when Dr. James Cox, a senior lecturer with that group and another author of the new paper, inspected her genetic profile, it did not resemble that of others known to live without pain.Eventually he found what he was looking for on a gene the scientists call FAAH-OUT. All of us have this gene. But in Ms. Cameron’s, “the patient has a deletion that removes the front of the gene,” he said. Additional blood work confirmed this hypothesis, he said.Ms. Cameron said she had been shocked by the interest in her case. Until her conversation with Dr. Srivastava, pain was not something she thought about. Perhaps it helped that even though she burned and cut herself quite often, her injuries rarely left scars — something else that scientists believe is connected to the mutation.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]A number of articles have been written about parents of children with similar conditions. Many live in fear that without pain, their children won’t learn how to avoid hurting themselves. Her parents never made it an issue, she said. She suspects this may be because she inherited the mutation from her father.“I can’t remember him needing any painkillers,” she said. “I think that’s why I didn’t find it odd.”Unfortunately, because he died before the discovery, it will remain unknown whether he carried the mutation. Her mother does not share it. Neither does her daughter. Her son “has the same microdeletion in FAAH-OUT, but does not have the other mutation that confers reduced FAAH function,” Dr. Cox said.In other words, her son shares some, but not all, of her pain insensitivity.Scientists are also intrigued by Ms. Cameron’s extraordinarily low anxiety level. On an anxiety disorder questionnaire, she scored zero out of 21. She cannot recall ever having felt depressed or scared.“I am very happy,” she said.In retrospect, she sees how her genetic disposition may have aided her at work. After years as a primary-school teacher, she retrained to work with people with severe mental disabilities. Erratic, aggressive behavior never riled her, she said.But though having this mutation may sound like a dream, there are downsides. One is that she is quite forgetful; prone to losing her keys and her train of thought midsentence. The other is that she’s never felt the “adrenaline rush” that other people talk about, she said.The researchers said they would now focus on trying to better understand how FAAH-OUT works so that they can design a gene therapy or other pain intervention around it. Turning a discovery of this sort into an actual pain or anxiety treatment requires many steps, many years and many millions of dollars. It’s rare for a product to emerge.But it’s not unprecedented, Dr. Waxman said. As a reminder of how an individual with an unusual genetic makeup can shape the future of medicine, he pointed to statin drugs.“They were developed largely on the basis and discovery of incredibly rare families where everyone was having heart attacks in their 20s,” he said. Whether it will be Ms. Cameron’s mutation or another individual’s mutation that directs the future of painkillers, it’s too early to say.“But I’m reasonably confident that the lessons we are learning from the genes involved in pain will lead to the development of an entirely new class of pain medications,” he said.AdvertisementSupported byA musical satire on the abortion debate lands in Greenwich Village, a titan of abstract expressionism gets an exhibition and a controversial artist returns to the stage.By The New York TimesApril 18-May 4; nytw.orgThere will be singing fetuses. That’s one of the things you need to know about “The Appointment,” the new musical satire from the Philadelphia company Lightning Rod Special. Another vital bit of information: These are the people who brought us the searing, seriocomic “Underground Railroad Game,” an Obie Award-winning hit when it ran at Ars Nova in 2016. As daring as that show is, with its painful saunter through the legacy of American slavery, the new piece may be even more incendiary — and no less socially relevant. Directed by Eva Steinmetz, “The Appointment” wades into the national abortion debate with a well-honed sense of absurdity, and firmly takes the side of abortion rights. Part of the Next Door at NYTW series, it starts performances on Thursday, April 18, at the Fourth Street Theater in Greenwich Village. (Bonus: Ars Nova is bringing “Underground Railroad Game” back for a limited run, May 30-June 15.)The clue, it seems, is in the name of the troupe: Lightning Rod Special is all about charged material. LAURA COLLINS-HUGHESThrough May 18; kasmingallery.comYou don’t look at a painting like Motherwell’s “Hoppla, wir leben!” with just your eyes. The exuberant orange expanse, one of eight paintings by the titan of abstract expressionism in “Sheer Presence: Monumental Paintings by Robert Motherwell” at Kasmin Gallery’s skylit new flagship location on 27th Street, is just under nine feet tall. You can’t see the scribbly charcoal figure, an impulsive cross between a fence and a Cyrillic letter, in the canvas’s roiling, sky-blue canton without imagining him stretching up on his tiptoes to draw it — and it’s hard to imagine that without rising to your toes yourself. As for “The Grand Inquisitor,” an explosive riff on the Belgian flag more than 14 feet long, it may require a few balletic leaps. WILL HEINRICHApril 14; chambermusicsociety.org and themorgan.orgOn April 14, New Yorkers have the chance to take in decades-spanning traversals of music by two American masters, George Crumb and Elliott Carter. At the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, Crumb’s 90th birthday will be feted with a two-evening celebration of his music; Crumb is still composing, and his early classics like “Vox Balaenae” will be heard alongside the premiere of a new percussion quintet. At the Morgan Library & Museum, the dependable JACK Quartet tackles Carter’s complete string quartets, five stunning works written over nearly a half-century.When they first achieved renown — Carter won the Pulitzer in 1960, and Crumb in 1968 — these two figures represented opposite poles of the American avant-garde, the former concerned with densely calculated textures and the latter with mystically expressive theatrics. Today, they seem not too far from one another: iconic, iconoclastic voices very much worth hearing. WILLIAM ROBINApril 16; britbox.comSelf-expression can be cathartic when navigating uncharted terrain. And the British writer Shaun Pye (“The Increasingly Poor Decisions of Todd Margaret”) pretty much bares his soul in “There She Goes,” his semiautobiographical series debuting Tuesday, April 16, on the streaming service BritBox.Inspired by experiences with his own daughter’s rare chromosomal disorder, Pye volleys between 2006 and 2015, as Simon (David Tennant) and Emily (Jessica Hynes) slowly realize that their baby has something undeniably wrong with her — after which they forge a path toward communicating with the headstrong Rosie (Miley Locke), who is unable to verbally express herself.“There She Goes” can be squirm-inducingly comedic as Simon, who drinks away the first months of Rosie’s life as a noncoping mechanism, lets his very un-P.C. freak flag fly. It’s also candidly poignant as Emily, searching for any indication of a mother-child bond, wonders if she’ll ever be able to love her daughter.And yet she does — profoundly, hilariously, realistically so. Which is where “There She Goes” excels, in a way you might expect from a show whose executive producers include Sharon Horgan of “Catastrophe” and “Motherland” fame: by shining a light on a perhaps more difficult kind of parenting without turning it into overly sentimentalized pablum. KATHRYN SHATTUCKApril 18-27; chocolatefactorytheater.orgMariana Valencia’s work springs from the particularities of her life. In “ALBUM” (2018), she played with the premise of leaving notes for a future biographer. In “Yugoslavia” (2017), she considered her connections to Eastern Europe, as someone raised in Chicago by a Guatemalan mother and Polish stepfather. The stories she tells — with dance judiciously interwoven — are personal, idiosyncratic, yet open up onto larger, broadly resonant themes. If we don’t chronicle our own histories, she seems to ask, who will?In her new “Bouquet,” at the Chocolate Factory Theater in Queens, she continues in that vein, joined by her longtime collaborator Lydia Okrent, an equally compelling performer. Resurrecting parts of past experiments, in a space smattered with fake fruit and other items, Valencia reflects on her path as an artist in New York. The title may refer to the work’s many groupings — of objects, of dance phrases — as she samples from the artists and influences she carries with her. SIOBHAN BURKEApril 20; ticketmaster.comAmanda Palmer is no stranger to controversy. The embattled punk cabaret artist became known for her unusual revenue model, which relies on crowdsourcing and subscription-based patronage. Though undoubtedly effective — Palmer’s 2012 album “Theatre Is Evil” is the most-funded original music project in Kickstarter history — the tactic has proved polarizing at best. Add to that a divisive TED talk and an ill-received poem in the aftermath of the Boston Marathon bombing, and a thinner-skinned artist might want to remove herself from the public eye entirely.But judging by her latest album, “There Will Be No Intermission,” Palmer is only emboldened by her critics. For a solo piano record, it makes a lot of noise: Palmer addresses topics from motherhood to abortion to global warming with empathy and nuance. Ahead of the album’s release, fearing negative critical reception, Palmer observed that, “There’s something very dangerous about being a woman loudly stating her opinion about anything.” At the Beacon Theater, Palmer’s sharply opinionated songs, performed alone at the keys, will ring loud and clear. OLIVIA HORNApril 12 and 19.Becky Something is a mess of a monster: the brilliant, brash frontwoman for a ’90s riot grrrl band, spiraling like a demon from hell toward a monumental breakdown. The sum of which makes Alex Ross Perry’s “Her Smell” a rather brutal two-plus hours, as Becky — played by a wickedly fine Elisabeth Moss — unleashes torrents of unhinged verbiage and physical assaults. It makes sense, then, to learn that Perry drew inspiration from a Guns N’ Roses reunion tour and Shakespeare.But the payoff, starting somewhere near the midpoint, is a journey of absolution astonishing in its ability to quell the throbbing clamor — but not the tension. And an aching rendition of Bryan Adams’s “Heaven” performed in stillness by Becky for her young daughter.AdvertisementSupported byThe CheckupWhy does one child cry inconsolably after a needle stick while another watches with curiosity as the shot is administered?By Perri Klass, M.D.I believe my mother thought that needing to medicate her own discomfort would be a kind of moral and physical weakness. This applied only to herself; if I told her that I was hurting, or that one of her grandchildren was in pain, she would have been anxious for something to help. She felt our pain, you might say, but she denied her own.I’ve spent the past couple of weeks thinking about pain in children and writing about pain in children — acute pain and chronic pain, pain with shots and pain after surgery, pain medicines and pain specialists. I asked the pain experts I interviewed about the different ways that different people experience pain from the same stimulus: Why does one child cry inconsolably after a needle stick while another, same age, same size needle, watches with curiosity as the shot is administered and doesn’t even flinch?There is a great deal of variation in how much pain people experience, I was told, and by and large we should take people at their word. Some people are more prone to soreness, some are relatively less sensitive, some hypersensitive, and there are differences in the ways that different people process pain, and in the ways they respond to drugs. And “hypersensitive” is not a code word for “complains more” — it’s a neurological category. And then of course there are psychological factors. That is not to say that pain is psychogenic, said Dr. Charles Berde, the founder of the division of pain medicine at Boston Children’s Hospital, and one of my teachers when I did my training there. People who are anxious or terrified of pain, people who have post-traumatic stress disorder, may actually experience more pain, he said, because the pain circuits in their brains are revved up.Doctors with children, maybe especially pediatricians with children, fall along a spectrum, or maybe it would be truer to say, oscillate between two poles when it comes to how seriously we take our own children’s complaints. On the one hand, we can sum up a child’s minor illness with a certain jaded well-I’ve-certainly-seen-worse shrug; so you have a headache, go lie down in a dark room.But like all doctors, I know too much, and sometimes that can send you in the other direction. My youngest child once woke up saying his stomach was hurting. He had pain in the classic place where the appendix often attaches, he was demonstrating textbook symptoms of appendicitis. I had him so firmly diagnosed that nothing could dissuade me. As it turned out, he didn’t actually have appendicitis, he just had a good story for it, as we say.That’s the oscillation I mean; when it comes to my own children, I tend to start with total denial: it’s nothing serious, don’t exaggerate, don’t make a fuss. But then a little switch flips, and I jump right from suggesting a cold cloth on the forehead for a headache to being certain I’ve missed diagnosing meningitis and we urgently need a spinal tap.And that in part reflects certain specific pain codes that can freak me out, with my own children, with the children of friends, and with patients. With children, after all, it’s fine to be pretty relaxed about chest pain, most of the time (adolescents with chest pain always think they’re having heart attacks, goes the pediatric wisdom, but they generally aren’t), but we pay a lot of attention if a younger child seems to have hip pain because infants and young children can develop rare — but serious — hip infections.There’s groin pain in a boy that can mean a pulled muscle or a too-small athletic cup, and there’s groin pain in a boy that can be a sign of testicular torsion, a medical emergency. And mixed in with all the headaches and stomach aches of childhood, there are those constant pediatric threats, the headache which is meningitis, the stomach ache which is appendicitis.When it comes to my own health, or the health of my family, if I think that headache or that belly ache (or that groin ache) is not evidence of some bad underlying process, I tend to be pretty dismissive of the pain. Maybe that’s in part because the experience of practicing medicine has left me humbly aware of the much more severe pain that other people suffer, but maybe I’m just being my mother’s daughter.For the extraction of my wisdom teeth I got by with nitrous oxide only, and needless to say, I toughed it out afterward without using the painkillers. I can’t actually explain why, though maybe in some sense I was just applying my mother’s standards. And she was in attendance for the birth of my first child — her first grandchild — which I had decided in advance would involve no pain medication.That had also been true of her own first labor — I was born in a nursing home in Trinidad, where my parents were spending the year while my father did anthropological field work, and my mother had not only told me the story, she had written the whole thing up in a memoir. So I knew she had managed without anesthesia, following the advice in her copy of Grantly Dick-Read’s natural childbirth classic, “Childbirth Without Fear,” originally published in 1942.How did my own sensations during that long labor compare to the pains other women experience during labor? How did they compare to what my mother had felt in the 1950s? (I also knew that her first labor had been so quick that I was born in the anteroom, onto old newspapers, because they didn’t have time to get her into the delivery room; my own first labor went on for more than 24 hours, and it seemed to me that my mother remarked on how long I was taking a wholly unnecessary number of times.)The surprising runner-up in last year’s Boston Marathon wants to be an elite runner while keeping her job as a nurse anesthetist. She insists that being busier makes her faster.CreditCreditRugile Kaladyte for The New York TimesSupported byBy Matthew FuttermanIn a world filled with Type A people striving to achieve the ultimate juggling act, Sarah Sellers is a worthy competitor.Sellers is the American nurse anesthetist and long distance runner who came out of nowhere last year to finish second in the chilly deluge that was the 2018 Boston Marathon.A year later, Sellers, 27, is headed back to Boston for Monday’s event. Logging up to 120 miles during as many as 11 weekly training sessions, she has lowered her personal-best time for 26.2 miles to 2 hours 36 minutes from the 2:44 she ran in Boston. She believes she can run under 2:30 soon, and has her sights set on the Olympics next year or in 2024.Oh, and she still logs 30 hours a week at her day job.In an era when success in sports is supposedly all about hyperfocus and specialization, Sellers’s approach to long distance running is a throwback, an experiment in whether there might be a better way. Her decision to keep working at Banner-University Medical Center Tucson is not about the money or fearing that she will lose her career in medicine if she runs full time. She says doing it this way is going to help her run faster, especially now that her struggles with disordered eating are behind her.“If I quit my job and trained full time, I don’t see it going well,” she said in an interview last month in New York, before she ran the New York City Half-Marathon. “I’d be a stress case and I’d be more injury prone. When I balance the two, I think I have better perspective.”To those who know Sellers best, her borderline-bananas juggling act is about what they have come to expect.Paul Pilkington, her coach now and when she ran at Weber State University in Ogden, Utah, said Sellers’s drive to push herself to the edge had been driving him nuts for years. Pilkington used to pair her with a slower Weber State teammate on recovery days and order Sellers not to push ahead. She would anyway. In February, in the middle of her preparation for Boston, she traveled to Ogden for vacation. The training schedule called for her to push to 120 miles that week. She did that, and also went on daily hikes, including scaling two peaks above 8,000 feet. One day, she went skiing.Sellers’s ambition to hold down a near-full-time job and be an elite runner does not have much precedent in recent times. Steve Jones, the former British marathon champion, held the marathon world record in the 1980s while working as a technician in the Royal Air Force, but that was a different era. The world record is more than six minutes faster now.Ben Rosario, the coach of the Northern Arizona Elite, a training group based in Flagstaff, set up the team so sponsorship money from the shoe company Hoka would allow runners to train full time, as nearly all the top American and international runners do now. But he said a runner like Sellers, with a full life outside of the sport, can avoid living and dying by each workout. One of Rosario’s runners, Kellyn Taylor, balances her training with taking care of her toddler and preparing to become a firefighter, while others need the rest.Those who believe Sellers will not be more than a middling marathoner point to her age and best times, which are far from world class. They say the second-place finish in Boston was a fluke, pulled off on a day of driving rain, 20-mile-per-hour headwinds and 40-degree weather that felled several elites from warmer climes. She is on the verge of her late 20s, they say, and has never broken 2 hours 36 minutes, which is more than 20 minutes behind Paula Radcliffe’s world record, 2:15:25.And yet Sellers is young in terms of her life as an elite distance runner; it often takes five to 10 years of dedicated training for a marathoner to reach a peak. Sellers is just getting started after finally figuring out how to take care of her body.Always talented, Sellers was prone to illness and injury in college. She sustained a stress fracture in her foot that essentially wrecked her senior year.The fracture was not simply bad luck. It was the result of Sellers’s tendency to make every workout hard. She was always dissatisfied with her performances, even when she set personal records. When she looked in the mirror, she always saw someone who was slightly heavier than she thought she should be, so she deprived herself of food, even when she was hungry. It was perfectionism taken to a dangerous level.The doctor she saw to treat her stress fracture told her she would recover with enough rest and physical therapy, but unless she started eating better and training smarter, the injuries would return. Not eating enough had weakened Sellers’s bones.Sellers ignored him. As promised, she was hurt again, sustaining a tibial stress fracture that finally forced her to cut way back on her running during graduate school in Florida.She barely ran for a year, and then slowly began light training and entered the occasional race. Even without speed training, she sometimes won. Once she worked an overnight shift until 7 a.m., then rushed to make the 7:30 a.m. start of a half-marathon that was near the hospital. After graduating in 2017 and moving to Tucson, where her husband, Blake, is a resident in orthopedic surgery, she entered her first marathon in September 2017 in Huntsville, Utah. She won with a time of 2:44:27. That led to an invitation to start with the elite women at Boston last year.Then freezing rain fell, the field thinned, and 2:44:04 later, Sellers finished second.In the postrace news conference, she wore the same souvenir shirt the other 30,000-odd runners got when they picked up their bibs. She became an overnight sensation — the scrubs-wearing nurse anesthetist who nearly won the Boston Marathon. Three companies, including Altra Running, a Utah-based footwear and clothing company, signed on as sponsors. Sellers said she never really thought about quitting her job to train full time, despite her grueling schedule.Her husband hears her padding out of the bedroom when it is still dark for her morning run. He will walk into an operating room a few hours later, and there she is, administering the anesthesia.“I’m a surgery resident, and she’s busier than I am,” he said.She usually works for as long as 10 hours at the hospital on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday. She rises as early as 4 a.m. to run up to 12 miles and arrives at the hospital at 7 some days. On morning runs, she is almost always alone in the darkness and dawn light, save for the occasional coyote or javelina, a wild pig as large as 50 pounds that roams Tucson streets in the dark.After work, she will often run at the track. Sometimes, she lifts weights. Thursday through Saturday are downright relaxing. No work, and just two hard workouts on Thursday and Friday and then a long run of 20-plus miles on Saturday. She does not run on Sundays, though she sometimes hikes. Sellers said the hospital gave her perspective. After standing over a car accident victim fighting for his life, a bad workout or a disappointing race does not seem like a big deal.She is considering a leave from the hospital before the Olympic trials in February. That would allow her to train at altitude for a few weeks with a group, and maybe nap between workouts. And yet, the idea of having all that time makes her twitchy.
APRIL 10, 2019

Jeremy O. Harris’s original play “Ye,” written for T’s Culture issue.

            Though unwound, remained righteous. A bi-polar ideation
          By Jeremy O. Harris  APRIL 10, 2019A microphone stands amid a landfill, detritus from the years before: turtle-bloodied plastic straws, charred tiki torches, silicone breasts, lips, hips and buttocks. All that hasn’t decomposed. Our unrotting present in this near future.It is 2024. Midnight. June 15.A drum is playing, digital and far off, as YE makes his way through the rubble of our present to this new future purgatory behind a mic.He wears rags gripping his body like bandages, a teste or two poking out from between legs that are bound together, near mummified.He wears headphones and gestures to some producer in the distance. Cameras line the front of the stage and his image is projected behind him.Ye(Into the mic, which projects Auto-Tune.)Eh.Ehhhhh!Eh,yo man,turn me up.……Turn me up.I’m doing this for my —It’s for my girl …I gotta hear myself.I gotta hear myselfso I can be surethat she can hear me.That she will hear meand understand.……I was diagnosedwith bi-polar disorder.I was connectedwith a neuropsychologistthat works withthe athletes in the N.B.A.and the N.F.L.And He looked at my brain,it’s equal on three parts,I’m gonna go ahead and drop some bombs for you.98th-percentile I.Q. test.I had a 75 percentile of all human beingscounting eight numbersbackward,so I’m gonna work on that one.The other ones,98 percent,Tesla,Freud.He said I wasn’t actually bi-polar;I had sleep deprivation,which could causedementia10 to 20 years from nowwhere I wouldn’t evenremember my son’s name.My son’s name.My son’s name.My son’s name.My son’s name.My son’s name.………June15Happy Birthday, Ms. West.My beautifulgirl,Gemini,like me.You made it to 11even ifin a torrentof presentpastand futuredangersfutureworriesfuturetemposfuturefutures.I had to take a momentfor myselfwithin myselfto make sense ofyour worldyour inheritancewhat I’m leaving you, Nori.What I’m leavingChicago,Saintand………What I’m leavingyou, Nori,Chicago,Saintand………There’s another, right?……A neuropsychologist,He saidI wasn’t actually bi-polar;I had sleep deprivation,which could causedementia10 to 20 years from nowwhere I wouldn’t evenremember my son’s name.Is it East?Is that your brother’s name?East West?Did we name him thatas a way,a reminder,that all of thisfrom the east to the westwas promised to me?I can’t rememberbut it seems right.Like something we’d decideI’d decide.I was toldit would be mineoursto haveand shapeto cure?The easttothe west.All of it.Lies.Lies.Lies.He said I probably wouldn’t be able to tellthe truthfrom a lie for long periodsof the time I was with himthis neuropsychologistbutI asked him,“So how do I know that anythingyou’re saying is true?”To which He responded:You don’t.So I decided to believe everything.It’s so much harderto thinkwhen you close yourself offto trutheven truth that might feellike a lie.………The drums are getting closer and we can now see their rhythms are dancing in time with lights in the sky. Lights that get closer, brighter, the louder the drums begin to sound.YeI owe you so much:honesty,for one.Honesty, for once.It’s funnythey thought I was a Godbecause I said I was.I said itand they believed itthey decided it was a truthnot just a truth that I believedbut a truth that they believedand that frightened them.Them beingthose outsidethe glass walls I put up around youtried to constructso that youcould look out and seethe worldI was building.………I’m not a God.I’m not even a man.That’s honest.For once.I need you to hear that,Nori.Hear it and know it.I’m an ideain a lineage of ideas.When I started saying I was a Godthat’s right as I wasbeginning to knowin that deepdarkexpansive part of my mindthat all of thatwhich had once made mea human beingwas gone.My dick stopped workingin the waysthe dick of a manis supposed to work.My dick began to respond to methe way the dickof an ideawould respond:when on the tip of a tongue,when struck,when in the presence of other ideas.So I surrounded began to surround myself,not with mennot with Godor Godsbut with ideas.And I held onto each of them tightly.Nori …I …98th-percentile I.Q. test.I had a 75 percentile of all human beingsTesla,Freud.……Ideas,not men,not Godor Gods …Tesla,Freud.……I began sampling myselfand others.Candy,Don.Because when you’re not a manbut they think you’re a Godyou,an idea,become recyclable materialand recycleothers.They started to sayI was bi-polar …But He,my neuropsychologistHe said I wasn’t actually bi-polar;I had sleep deprivation.But an idea doesn’t sleep.Men sleep.……Now the lights are so bright we almost can’t see YE behind his microphone. It’s too much for our eyes to take. The drumming is deafening.YeI find myself here,an ideaamid thedetritus of your inheritanceon the 15th ofJune.Your 11th birthday.No longer a childnot yet a womanan inheritor ofsiliconeand destructionnot to say sorry …not to give you any advice …but articulatethe idea I believe I’ve become.It is an ideathat is eternal:You sitwith an emptinessin your spiritpennies in your pocketand destruction all around you.You’ve been toldit was a manwho caused this destructionwho has left youalone,butit was not.It wasn’t even a God.It was an idea,an ideathat sat silently on the tip of a tonguebecause itwas too sweet tobe utteredaloud:The universeand all of us in itwant to be destroyedwe createto destroywe were created tobe destroyedcreated by the ideaof our eventualdestruction …the ice caps have meltednot by man,not by God,the fish were fishednot by man,not by God,the rhinoceros roams no more,the wall was built,the bombs were blown,the families fractured,the bodies bundled,not by man,not by God,but by this idea.And this idea now spokenassures the accelerationof its maturation.YE looks at the camera, smiles. He looks down and grabs a piece of broken glass.YeHappy Birthday!Don’t mourn me.I was always an idea,not a man.He puts the glass up to his throat and:AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni, Katie Rogers and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON — There was no golf. There were no meetings. There were no activities, other than a rare visit to church. So President Trump did what he could do: He tweeted.Since his election, Mr. Trump has averaged about 16 tweets per weekend, according to a New York Times analysis of his tweets as collected by the Trump Twitter Archive website. But last weekend proved to be an unusually active 48 hours online for Mr. Trump: From Friday morning to Sunday evening, Mr. Trump tweeted over 50 times, counting the retweets that amplified supporters who have limited public reach on their own.Ensconced in the White House, Mr. Trump saw enemies everywhere, and his tweets reflected that, stoking new tensions and nursing past grievances.He took on “Saturday Night Live,” which on March 16 aired a rerun from Christmas, and suggested that the Federal Communications Commission “look into” late-night shows and examine them for anti-Trump bias. He accused Senator John McCain, who died of brain cancer last year, of collaborating with Democrats and claimed that Mr. McCain, a former prisoner of war, was “last in his class” at the Naval Academy. (Mr. McCain actually graduated fifth from the bottom.) And he defended Tucker Carlson and Jeanine Pirro, the Fox News opinion hosts who have been under fire for making bigoted statements, encouraging Fox executives to “stay strong” in the face of criticism.Mr. Trump’s advisers have shared with him data showing that even his supporters do not like the tweet storms, and have advised him to act more “presidential” as his re-election campaign draws nearer. At rallies, even die-hard Trump fans who arrive early dressed in “MAGA” gear admit that while they are willing to overlook the president’s online musings, they would prefer seeing fewer of them.Mr. Trump often likes to buck the advice he gets, and it was clear over the weekend that he was trusting his gut again, and going his own way.“Stop working soooo hard on being politically correct, which will only bring you down, and continue to fight for our Country,” he said in a tweet on Sunday that appeared to be directed at Fox executives who had temporarily removed Ms. Pirro from her Saturday night slot after she suggested that Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, may practice Shariah law.“The losers all want what you have, don’t give it to them. Be strong & prosper, be weak & die!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. He also singled out two weekend Fox News anchors, Arthel Neville and Leland Vittert, who are less opinionated than the late-night hosts who double as the president’s personal friends and informal advisers, asking rhetorically whether they were “trained by CNN prior to their ratings collapse.”Later on Sunday, he shared a homemade meme from a little-known Twitter user, who goes by the handle @LonewolfnDuke, which depicted him as “an American president having to fight an American government to protect American citizens.”But it was unclear what had provoked the president’s flurry of activity, and even advisers were searching for the normal cues that set him off: White House officials performing poorly on the Sunday show circuit, or the president’s delayed distillation of negative coverage from the week before.Mr. Trump on Friday was rebuked by Senate Republicans, 12 of whom voted with Democrats against a national emergency to build a border wall. But the border barely figured into Mr. Trump’s weekend tweets, which appeared to be driven more by idle hands and an empty weekend schedule.People who spoke with Mr. Trump on the phone over the weekend said he seemed to be in good spirits. Others who communicated with him said he had spent some time railing privately against Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director. But they also said he appeared to be a little aimless, and the outpouring seemed to be more driven by a lack of structure. Mr. Trump had skipped his regular weekend trip to Mar-a-Lago, his Florida estate, because of a family commitment that kept him grounded in Washington.There was a four-hour lull in Mr. Trump’s online activity on Sunday, when he left the White House to visit St. John’s Church for St. Patrick’s Day. But for the most part, the president — bored, agitated or both — appeared to spend the weekend online.Mr. Trump shared with his 59.1 million followers a report circulating on right-wing sites that Minnesota Democrats had grown unhappy with Ms. Omar, and accused a “Democrat” union leader in Ohio of standing in the way of putting an idling General Motors plant in the state back into operation.Jack Posobiec, a Trump supporter known for advancing conspiracy theories on Twitter, including “Pizzagate,” marveled that his messages were being retweeted by the leader of the free world. The president shared two tweets initially sent by Mr. Posobiec, one a local news article about an MS-13 gang stabbing, and another criticizing CNN over a segment examining the links between Mr. Trump and white nationalism.“I realize the president’s just reading my Twitter account going through the tweets,” Mr. Posobiec said in a 13-minute video he posted analyzing the experience. “Let’s see what else he’s up to today.”As is often the case, there was a correlation between what appeared on Mr. Trump’s Twitter feed and the programming on Fox News. The weekend tour into conspiracy theories kicked off on Friday, when Mr. Trump elevated a nascent movement that calls itself “Jexodus,” the brainchild of a conservative Jewish activist that describes itself as a group of “proud Jewish millennials tired of living in bondage to leftist politics.”“The ‘Jexodus’ movement encourages Jewish people to leave the Democrat Party,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, although there is no evidence to suggest that Jewish voters have been deserting the party. But Mr. Trump appeared to be reacting to an appearance on “Fox & Friends” by the group’s spokeswoman, Elizabeth Pipko, a former model and Trump 2016 campaign staff member.Brian Ott, who studies the effects of rhetoric at Texas Tech University and is the author of a book studying Mr. Trump’s tweets, said the president appeared to have become less concerned with the consequences of his messaging.“Not only is it already getting worse,” Dr. Ott said, “I don’t think we’ve even seen the tip of the iceberg yet. As these investigations begin to close in on him, really his only play is to stoke vitriol and violence.”Tweeting has also become a normal part of how the president circumvents the news media and his own advisers to communicate to the public what is on his mind. But the weekend whirlwind was so unusual that it created its own mini news cycle, with targets using their own platforms to respond and aides fielding questions from reporters about the president’s mental state.Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, defended him on Monday morning after her husband, George Conway, spent the weekend raising concerns about “Narcissistic Personality Disorder” and said on Twitter that Mr. Trump’s “condition is getting worse.”“No, I don’t share those concerns,” Ms. Conway told reporters outside the White House.Meghan McCain, a host of “The View” and the daughter of Mr. McCain, said the attacks — which included a presidential retweet of a woman who claimed that “Millions of Americans truly LOVE President Trump, not McCain” — only made her feel bad for Mr. Trump’s family.“I can’t imagine having a father that does this on the weekends,” Ms. McCain said.AdvertisementSupported byWe could learn a thing or two from the ancient Greeks’ understanding of suffering. By Haider WarraichDr. Warraich is a cardiologist.The United States uses a third of the world’s opioids but a fifth of Americans still say they suffer from chronic pain. The only demonstrable effect of two decades of widespread prescription of opioids has been catastrophic harm. With more than 47,000 Americans dying of opioid overdoses in 2017 and hundreds of thousands more addicted to them, it was recently reported that, for the first time, Americans were more likely to die of opioids than of car accidents.This has forced many to take a step back and ponder the very nature of pain, to understand how best to alleviate it.The ancient Greeks considered pain a passion — an emotion rather than a sensation like touch or smell. During the Dark Ages in Europe, pain was seen as a punishment for sins, a spiritual and emotional experience alleviated through prayers rather than prescriptions.In the 19th century, the secularization of Western society led to the secularization of pain. It was no longer a passion to be endured but a sensation to be quashed.The concept of pain as a purely physical phenomenon reached its zenith in the 1990s, when medical organizations such as the American Pain Society and the Department of Veterans Affairs succeeded in having pain designated a “fifth vital sign,” alongside blood pressure, temperature and breathing and heart rate. This coincided with the release of long-acting opioids like OxyContin. Doctors believed they now had an effective remedy for their patients’ suffering.While opioids do help many patients with acute pain from injuries, surgeries or conditions like cancer, looking back it’s clear that using opioids to treat chronic pain — backaches, bum knees and the like — might well be considered the worst medical mistake of our era.Decades of research suggests that opiates provide little to no benefit for chronic noncancer pain. One recent randomized trial of people with chronic joint and back pain showed that patients using opioids experienced slightly more pain compared with those using medications like acetaminophen and ibuprofen.Why is this? Studies have shown that opioids can reduce patients’ pain thresholds. They can also result in a condition called opioid-induced hyperalgesia, in which people feel more and more pain as they are prescribed higher and higher doses of opioids.The conventional thinking about pain as purely a physical stimulus has clearly failed us. Maybe the ancient Greeks knew something we don’t.While the expression that suffering is “all in your head” is too often used to diminish others’ agony, the mind does play a pivotal role in the experience of pain. After a pain signal reaches the brain, it undergoes significant reprocessing. How much something hurts can vary depending on factors like your expectations, your mood and how distracted you are. Just seeing someone else in pain can make you feel worse, too. This phenomenon has been demonstrated in studies of both rodents and humans. In other words, pain is contagious and transmittable. There is also an incredibly strong association between pain and mental health. Conditions like depression and anxiety greatly increase the chance of developing chronic pain, while patients who experience pain are at high risk of developing depression or anxiety. This vicious cycle is partly a result of the fact that there is considerable overlap in the areas of the brain that deal with pain and emotion.Additional clues about the fuzzy line between sensation and perception come from pain’s creepy bedfellow: itching.The sensation of itchiness, which is perceived by some of the same skin receptors that are on the lookout for pain, may seem like a purely physical phenomenon, but it’s not. Just seeing someone else scratch, or thinking about feeling ticklish, can make you itchy, too. Like pain, it can be alleviated through distraction. And like pain, it is closely linked to mental health issues such as depression and obsessive compulsive disorder. All this is not to say that there is no physical component to these feelings. Objectively, there is no doubt that illnesses and injuries can cause immense suffering. The question is how severe that suffering is, and how long it lasts. Recent research shows that pain sensitivity varies significantly among people, most likely as a result of genetic differences. There is so much that we still don’t understand about the fundamental biology of pain, and that needs to change.In the meantime, there is plenty we can do to address America’s pain epidemic. For too long the pharmaceutical industry has blurred our vision. It was just revealed in court filings that drug companies greatly underplayed the risks of opioids, while billions of dollars in marketing told people that pills were the only answer to their ailments.There is a pressing need to increase funding for research into strategies that don’t just involve taking more drugs. Not every person who experiences acute pain goes on to develop chronic pain. We need to learn more about which interventions work to prevent this transformation. Pain management should continue to be emphasized in medical education, but future doctors should be taught that pain is part of the story of the person who suffers from it, not just a separate physical phenomenon. And this education should incorporate ways to avoid prescribing opioids for chronic use. Progress is already underway, as opioid prescription rates have been dropping since 2012 in the United States. But we still have a long way to go: The amount of opioids prescribed per person remains three times higher than it was 20 years ago.Perhaps the most important tool physicians need to manage pain is empathy.If chronic pain is an emotion as well as a sensation, then it is unlikely to be managed successfully without compassion. A 2017 study of doctors in Spain found that those whose patients rated them as empathetic were more effective at relieving their patients’ pain. Physical therapy that doesn’t just manipulate joints but also addresses the context pain comes alive in, encourages optimism and builds emotional resilience has been found to be more effective.All this takes more time and attention than just prescribing a pill, and unfortunately our health system encourages doctors to see as many patients as possible as quickly as possible. We need to change how physicians are paid in order to give them the time to really talk with patients about their pain.Back in medical school, I dislocated a disk in my back. In a snap, pain became my constant companion: It was the last thing I felt before I slept, the first feeling I had when I woke up. Unable to leave my dorm, I fell into a dark hole. I looked fine on the outside but was moth-eaten on the inside. I was adamant that I would avoid painkillers, especially opioids. I had no idea about the science that would emerge over the next few years. I felt that the pain was my body’s way of telling me that something was wrong, and I didn’t want to silence that voice with a temporary fix. What pulled me out after almost a year of agony was not just rigorous physical therapy that molded my spine back into shape but also the kindness of my friends, my family and my future wife. When I see a patient with chronic pain, I try to see that person through the eyes of my younger self. When someone experiences chronic pain, there is no way to quantify it — no blood test to draw, no imaging test to order. It requires physicians to practice medicine the way it was long before the discovery of morphine. In essence, it represents the purest of medical encounters, and an opportunity, if not to cure, then to heal.Haider Warraich (@haiderwarraich), a fellow in advanced heart failure and transplantation at Duke University Medical Center, is the author of the forthcoming “State of the Heart: Exploring the History, Science, and Future of Cardiac Disease.”AdvertisementSupported byIn The Edit, a New York Times newsletter for college students and recent graduates, we asked for stories about mental health on campus. The responses below have been edited and condensed.I am divorced, and I live with my parents. I moved home to Minnesota from Texas and decided to continue pursuing my bachelor’s in psychology that I had abandoned after having started school in the fall of 2005. I have been attending classes part time while working full time to keep my health insurance since the summer of 2016.I am on track to graduate next fall. All the while, I have been fighting with chronic pain from a horseback-riding accident and managing depression. Some days I have purpose and a drive to succeed, and other days I just want to give up. If you really want something in this life, you have to find that resilience to pursue it and just keep going.As a result of growing up in a broken and traumatic home, I began experiencing severe anxiety and depression in middle school. While it followed me throughout high school and college, I channeled my struggle with mental illness into the founding of a social enterprise, LEAD (Let’s Empower, Advocate and Do), that provides mental health training and curriculum to schools, camps and youth-serving organizations across the country.I am a senior undergraduate student and was recently named the third-best student entrepreneur in the country in the Entrepreneurs’ Organization Global Student Entrepreneurship Awards.I have struggled with clinical depression and anxiety since my sophomore year of high school. I am a sophomore in college, and I am very passionate about mental health and working to improve it.I read a lot of self-help books in high school, but most were written by a 50-year-old psychologist who knows what they’re talking about in a clinical sense, but not how it actually feels to be 16 and struggling with suicidal thoughts and panic attacks. Because of this, I decided to write a short book with practical advice for improving your outlook on the world and how to incorporate caring for your mental health into your routine through mindfulness, exercise, limited phone time and leaving room for what brings you joy in life.I have conducted a workshop at my high school on improving mental health and also do my best to bring that conversation to Wake Forest.My main philosophy is about learning how to make Tuesday your favorite day of the week, because if you’re always waiting for the weekend or Christmas or your graduation, you are deciding that your happiness is circumstantial, and that therefore you don’t control it, your environment does. However, if you decide that amid the boring, mundane, stressful and sometimes heartbreaking realities of life, that you are going to focus on what is good and build your life around that instead, you are taking back the control that you deserve over your own happiness.I am in my second semester of graduate school, studying for my master’s in public administration, with a focus in gender-based violence. Within my first weeks of being here I witnessed a homeless woman being raped outside of my apartment and obviously called 911.This in many ways was triggering to me, and I went into my first semester of grad school suffering from pretty severe post-traumatic stress disorder, from both this and a previous incident. This is all happening as the Kavanaugh hearings are happening, and I am taking my first gender-based violence class of my program. As I was taking the bus to and from work every day, I was entirely dissociative.I likely could not tell you what happened my entire first month of grad school, that’s how detached I was from reality at that time. Luckily, I took the day off for Rosh Hashana and went to the market, and I was able to snap back into reality in a lot of ways. That day I made an appointment with my campus’s sexual assault resource center. It was able to get me extensions on assignments, set me up with a therapist and wrote a letter of support for my department allowing me to drop the gender-based violence class and receive a full refund.I also saw a psychiatrist and was prescribed beta blockers, which have helped bring down my heightened sense of danger wherever I go. This semester, having had time to help heal, I’ve been able to restart my concentration in gender-based violence, which is more important to me now than ever, and I was still able to complete my other two graduate courses last semester and remain a full-time student.It was so important for me to write you, to emphasize the importance of institutional support. I still struggle sometimes, but I think that without them helping me, I likely would have had no choice but to drop out and move back home.I always knew that coming to study at another university in a foreign country is tough. You sleep and breathe in English, you learn to embrace flip flops in the classroom. You adapt. And that was part of my plan.I embrace new opportunities, learn as much as I can, make mistakes, make friends, have first drinks, pull all-nighters. But depression was never part of my plan. I didn’t even know it had a name until everything felt empty.So, here I was, FaceTiming my mother without the video because I could not let her see my face. My voice sounds fine, telling her I was fine, schoolwork is challenging but manageable — I am applying to summer internships, competition is rough, but it’s fine. And everything was fine. Except me.The first time I had a counseling session was weird. It felt weird that I was living my dream, studying in the United States, having supportive family and friends, and yet I was sitting in that chair. I learned that sometimes there was no definite reason for the way I felt. But at least, when I acknowledged that I was not mentally healthy, it was the beginning of my healing process.Every day I try to make healthier choices and balance all aspects of my life. I go to counseling. I practice mindfulness. I talk to my support network. The chemicals in my brain sometimes act up, but I know I just need to be extra patient that day.If there is a mental health group on your campus that could provide support, definitely check it out. Every single time you feel that you are trapped in your head, remember that every little step to make yourself feel better is a step, as long as you don’t stop.